Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



r 


Y PHOTOGRAPHIC HANDY-BOOKfl 


1 


o I 


photo-micrographJ 


1 




llOW TO PHOTIKiltAl'H JrirlKiscoiMij mu|(B 


1 


I. H. JBNNIKGa« 


1 


AftD, A CBAPTEB ON PEEPABIXB Umu 


1 


Bt Dh. r. l. maddox. 


1 


uisnos : 

fll'JSIl A CAHTKH, S, FfRMVAL STIJEEI 

V iioi.nonif. Kc 


1 


^\ isao. 



-J- 



.JSf 



HOW TO PHOTOGEAPH 

MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS: 



OB , : . , 



LESSONS IN 

PHOTO-MICEOGEAPKY FOE BEGINNEBS. 



BY ' 



I. H. eTENNINGS, 

LATK ARSI8TAMT XA8TXR AT THE HIGH 8CU00L, NOTTINOHAX. 



BEPEINTED FROM TSB ** FHOTOGSAPHIC NEWS,'' 

With many Additions. 



AND A CHAPTER ON PREPARING BACTERIA, 

Br B. L. MADDOX, M.D., Etc., & Hon. F.B.M.S. 



LOiraON : 
PIPEE & CAETEE, 5, CASTLE STREET, HOLBORN, B.C. 

1885. 



• k 



• • • 



• • 



^tlSiitKtion. 



TO 

R. L. MADDOX, Esq., M.D., Hon. F.R.M.S., etc. 

TO WHOM THE AUTHOR 18 INDEBTED FOE THE CHAPTER ON " PRB- 

PABIKO AND PHOTOGRAPHING BACTERIA," IN WHOSE STEPS 

BE HAS BEEN A HUMBLE FOLLOWER, AND BY WHOSE 

TEACHINGS HE HAS LABGBLT PROFITED, 

THIS LITTLE BOOK IS BY PEBMI88IOX 

DEDICATED. 



PREFACE 



The reason cVetre of this little book is as follows. During the 
time that the writer has practised photography as a help in his 
microscopical studies, he has frequently met with microscopists 
who, recognizing the great value of photography as a means of 
making a truthful record of their work, desired to commence 
the art, but were deterred from so doing, either by supposed 
-difficulties, or by the want of books treating specially on this 
branch of photography. The writer has repeatedly been asked 
to read papers, or to give some information, on photo- 
micrography, and he has found a general complaint that there 
is no elementary work on the subject published in this country. 
This want of simple, elementary information, he himself 
-experienced when commencing photo-micrography. The more 
advanced student, however, will find many excellent papers in 
the pages of the Monthly Microscopical Journal^ The Trans- 
actions of the Boyal Microscopical Society, and will learn much 
from the chapter on photo-micrography in Dr. Beale's book, 
" How to Work with the Microscope." 

It was to meet this want that the following pages have been 
written, and the writer wishes to poin. out that, while he had 
specially in view the needs of the experienced microscopist who 
wished to obtain a knowledge of microscopical photography, he 
^d not forget the claims of those who, knowing little or 
nothing either of microscopy or photography, wished to begin 



3 



13757 



IV PREFACE. 

the practice of both. It was with this object in view that so 
much space has been given to the subject of lenses and micro- 
scopical apparatus generally, for on no subject does the young 
microscopist so much need sound advice ; without it he is apt 
to have palmed off on him, frequently at an exorbitant price, 
some gaily -lacquered microscope, which appears to his inexperi- 
ence at first absolute perfection, but which a little practice soon 
proves utterly worthless. There are so many wretched speci- 
mens of workmanship in the market, sold as microscopes, by 
persons who are opticians only in name, that it is necessary to 
caution all beginners who want a microscope for real workj 
against purchasing an instrument from any but an optician of 
reputation. All cheap microscopes are not necessarily bad, 
while many bad microscopes are very high-priced. All the 
best English makers now produce microscopes of high 
excellence, at a very low price, which are fitted for doing all 
ordinary work, being of sound, exact workmanship, convenient 
in design, and furnished with really good lenses. Several of 
these instruments ai'e figured and described in the following 
pages ; but it must be understood that there are also other 
London makers, not named, who produce similar instruments ; 
but it has been the writer's aim, not only to mention good 
instruments, but such as appeared to him specially fitted for the 
practice of photo-micrography, and sold at a moderate price. 

The largest instruments of Swift, Ross, Collins, Baker, 
Powell, and Beck, have neither been described nor recom- 
mended, simply because, perfect as these are in design and 
workmanship, their high price prevents their being possessed 
except by the few; while the smaller and moderate -priced 
instruments, such as Swift's new large model Wale's microscope, 
Collin's new model Jffarley, and Ross' Brewer's microscope, 
are equal to performing scientific work of the highest and most 
delicate description, and are fitted with every convenience the 



PREFACE. V 

worker can possibly desire, and are fully equal in finish to the 
larger stands. In fact, in such instruments, the student has, at 
a price that most can afford, greater perfection of workmanship, 
design, and finish, than could be obtained in the cumbrous 
forty or fifty guinea stands of thirty years ago. Nothing better 
can be desired by anyone, except for the mere purpose of show. 

The smaller and simpler instruments described are specially 
suitable for the beginner, and are capable of withstanding a 
large amount of rough usage, and are equal to most of the work, 
photo-micrographic or otherwise, that will be required of them 
Such instruments will be found very useful, even to the micro- 
scopist who possesses more costly stands, as they are very use- 
ful for carrying about, and will save a valuable microscope 
from much wear and tear, such as is involved in using a micro- 
scope for photography. 

In his remarks on lenses and apparatus generally, the writer 
has confined himself entirely to such as he has himself worked 
with and tested in the actual practice of photo-micrography. 
This will explain why many, doubtless useful, pieces of appa- 
ratus are not noticed. 

Several novelties are figured and described, which are 
calculated to prove very useful to the photo-micrographer. 
Amongst these may be mentioned Swift's Gas microscope, and 
his new photo-micrographic apparatus. A few improved forms 
of apparatus are noted, such as Swift's very ingenious Popular 
condenser, his various sizes and patterns of the Wale's micro- 
scope, and Collins' new form of the very useful Webster con- 
denser. Prom a practical trial of all these, the writer can 
^confidently affirm that the student who requires a good micro- 
scope or accessories, cannot go wrong in choosing from any 
that he has mentioned. 

In his practical directions for development of negatives, 
printing, &c., the writer has tried to be as plain as possible, 



VI PREFACE. 

and has mentioned the simplest, and at times apparently trivial, 
details, that he might avoid omitting anything that could be of 
the slightest possible help to the beginner, who, when first 
venturing upon the mysteries of development, printing, 
toning, &c,, is apt to feel bewildered by the number of new and 
strange operations he has to perform. It is hoped that the 
chapter treating on defects in photo-micrographic negatives and 
their remedies will prove one of the most useful to the 
beginner. 

For further information on photographic matters, the 
student is referred to Captain Abney's "Instruction in Photo- 
graphy," Burton's " Modern Photography," and other valuable 
books published by Messrs. Piper and Carter. The whole 
series of these " Handy-Books " will form a most complete 
reference library for the photo-micrographer. For instruction 
in microscopical details, Carpenter's " Microscope and its 
Revelations," and Davis's "Practical Microscopy," will be 
found by far the most useful text-books on general microscopy ; 
while the works of Dr. Beale may be consulted by the more 
advanced student for special information. The "Micro- 
graphic Dictionary " may be referred to at times with 
advantage; but the book, as a whole, does not satisfy the 
requirements of the microscopical student. Dr. Sternberg's 
*' Photo-Micrographs and How to Make Them," is a most 
excellent introduction to the study of biology, but contains very 
little instruction in photography or microscopy. 

In conclusion, the writer wishes to thank those opticians who 
8o kindly and readily gave him information, or lent him appa- 
ratus or illustrations. His thanks are also due to the Publishers 
for the great interest they have taken in this little book, and 
for their kindness in carrying out his wishes. 



CONTENTS. 



VAOB 

Introduction ^ ... 1 

CHAPTER I. 
Microscopical Apparatus a 

^ CHAPTER II. 
Photographic Apparatus 23^ 

CHAPTER IlL 
Illumikatino Apparatus 3^ 

CHAPTER IV. 
Exposing the Plate 3a 

CHAPTER V. 

.l^EVELOPMENT ••• *•• ••• ... ••• ••• ••• t9 

CHAPTER VL 
Defects in the Negative 5^ 

CHAPTER VU. 

aRINTING ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• V* 



Vm COKTENTS. 



PAOB 

CHAPTER Vllt. 
JPbeparing Objects for Photography 69^ 

CHAPTER IX. 
Preparing Entomological Slides 73- 

CHAPTER X 
Preparing Vegetable Tissues for Photography 79* 

CHAPTER XL 

Preparing Sections of Hard Substances for Photography 8a 

CHAPTER Xn. 

Preparing Crystallizations for Photo -Micrography ... 86. 

CHAPTER Xm. 

Bacteru, and the Mode op Photographing Them ... 91 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Detection of Arsenic in Fabrics, and Photographing 

Deposits of Arsenous Acid , 109^ 

CHAPTER XV. 

Notes on Lenses and Other Apparatus 115 

Note on R. L. Maddox's "Bacteria" 128- 



HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 



MIOROSOOPIO OBJECTS. 



INTRODUCTION. 

Photo-mictbogkaphy is the art of making, by means of the micro- 
scope, photographic enlargements of microscopic objects. 
Properly employed it forms a valuable tool in the apparatus of 
the scientific worker, for, by its aid, he can record faithfully 
the results of difficult and delicate operations, or delineate the 
forms of minute bodies, concerning whose true structure different 
observers may vary in opinion. A photo-micrograph allows no 
room for play of the imagination : it simply shows how a given 
object appeared at the time the observation was made. Seriously 
carried out, and more especially when using high powers, photo- 
micrography is hard and trying work. The arrangement of the 
apparatus, the placing and illumination of the object, are tedious 
and difficult. Beginners in this fascinating and important art 
are warned that they must be prepared to encounter not only all 
the difficulties and troubles incident to ordinary photography, 
but also others of a different nature peculiar to photo-micro- 
graphy. 

To become a skilful photo-micrographer it is first necessary to 
be a skilful microscopist ; for if the operator does not know 



2 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

how to display an object to tlie best advantage, his photograplis 
will be useless. Yet the microscopist who comes &esh to 
photographic operations will find himself in a sea of troubles, 
spoil a number of plates, produce failure after failure, and, 
perhaps, throw up photo-micrography in disgust. The writer 
would advise all who contemplate a beginning to first make 
themselves acquainted with landscape photography, and all 
ordinary photographic manipulation: this need involve little 
extra expense, and the profit and pleasure to be gained from this 
course will amply repay any little additional outlay. One of the 
most skilful photo-micrographers that the writer ever knew was 
a gentleman who employed the microscope regularly as an in- 
strument of research, but who used the camera only on his 
holiday trips. Being engaged in writing a paper which re- 
quired illustration, it occurred to him to try photo-micrography, 
as the objects which he wished to depict were beyond the 
skill of the engraver. He did so, and succeeded at once. . 

Beginners in photo-micrography should bear in mind :^-^lst. 
That they should themselves develop every plate they expose ;. 
2nd. That the best results need not be expected unless they are 
also able to make their own silver prints. A professional photo- 
grapher may be Al at landscape and portrait work, but this does 
not show that he is fit to be entrusted with negatives of micro- 
scopic objects. To bring out the details of a photo-micrographic 
negative of a print properly, requires that the operator should 
thoroughly understand the nature of the object ; and this can- 
not be done except by a microscopist. 

All objects are not suited for photo -micrography. Very 
opaque ones are not the worst, but those which have any strong 
tint of red, brown, or yellow- On this account many beautiful 
insect preparations cannot be photographed successfully ; and 
we would, therefore, advise the beginner to study the prepara- 
tion of microscopic objects, so as to be able, in case of need, to 

spare and mount his own objects. As an example, a fly's 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 3 

tongue forms a pretty microscopic object, and most of the slides 
met with are tolerably good ; yet a photograph taken from these 
ordinary slides usually is a complete failure. The reason is, 
that the unequal transparency of the object makes some parts 
over-exposed, while, in the darker parts, the detail has not im- 
pressed the film. Here, the best way is to make, or have made, 
a special preparation. 

Photo-micrography has had many followers amongst the 
scientific men of England, the continent of Europe and America, 
ever since Archer's wet collodion process was introduced. To 
enumerate all the names of all those who have practised the att 
successfully would take more space than can be spared ; thus 
our object in the following pages will be to mention those who 
have been, as it were, pioneers in photo-micrography. 

Dr. J. "W. Draper, of "New York, was probably the first to take 
a photo-micrograph. He was also tke first to use the Daguerreo- 
type process for taking portraits, having his sister to sit for him, 
in full sunlight, with her face powdered, and giving an exposure 
of twenty or thirty minutes. For the purpose of portraiture, 
the Daguerreotype process, as then practised, was necessarily 
unsatisfactory, as it was impossible for the sitter to keep still 
through such long exposures, and blurred and hazy outlines 
were all that could be obtained. However, lengthy exposures 
were no objection in the case of photographs of microscopic 
objects, and here Dr. Draper was very successful, for it is said 
that some of his earliest photo-micrographs, which are still in 
existence, taken on silvered plates, are marvels of beauty; 

America has produced several very skilful photo-micro- 
graphers, foremost amongst whom may be mentioned Dr. "Wood- 
ward, Dr. Draper, and Dr. Sternberg. The former has attained 
world-wide celebrity through his marvellous photographs of 
Kobert's test plates, and of the most difficult test-diatoms, such 
&s Amphtpleura pellucida; perhaps his work in this direction 
has never been equalled by anyone— certainly, never excelled. 



4 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

Dr. Woodward, while executing these/<?a^« in photo-micrography, 
did not neglect the useful applications of the art, but was con- 
stantly employing his camera to illustrate various branches of 
physiology and pathology. To those who would wish to decry the 
use of expensive apparatus, we would say, that Dr. "Woodward 
employed in his practice of photo-micrography none but the 
very best lenses and other apparatus, with which the Army 
Museum at "Washington, thanks to the liberality and good sense 
of the American Government, was well supplied ; and it is more 
than doubtful whether even Dr. Woodward's inimitable akill 
could have gained such grand results by the use of anything 
inferior. The worker whose means are limited may rest 
assured that although results of value can be obtained from the 
use of cheap apparatus, combined with intelligence and skill in 
their use, yet the highest departments of photo-micrography are 
only open to those who caa add to patient skill and years of 
scientific experience, the possession of the best instruments that 
our opticians can produce. 

Dr. Sternberg is best known to the scientific world through 
his work in connection with the Bacteria and other lowly 
organisms which are now proved to be the cause of many 
infectious diseases. For the purpose of recording his results, he 
has for many years made large use of photography, and has pro- 
duced work of the very highest class. In 1880 he published a 
translation of Dr. Magnin's **The Bacteria,'' and illustrated it 
by heliotypes from his photographs. Last year he brought out 
a work entitled ** Photo-Micrographs and how to make them," a 
thoroughly good book in every respect, but which perhaps 
possesses more value as a most delightful introduction to modem 
biology, than as a text-book on photo-micrography. It is illus- 
trated by forty-seven photographs reproduced in heliotype, all 
of which possess great excellence. 

In England the name of Dr. Maddox will be well-known to 
every photo-micrographer, for during the past thirty years he 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 5 

has done more photo-micrographic work, and laboured more to 
bring the claims of the art before the scientific world, than any 
other man. As the inventor of gelatino-bromide plates, strange 
to say, his name is not so generally known — at least, in this 
country — ^for the great authorities on modem photography on 
the Continent (Dr. Eder and Dr. Yogel) have given due honour 
to Dr. Maddox for his invention. In England, the writer thinks, 
Dr. Maddox has never received sufficient recognition for an 
invention of such value — an invention which has revolutionised 
the whole science and practice of photography. 

The photo-micrographs of Dr. Maddox are well known : pei" 
haps among the best are his photograph of part of the fnistule 
of F. angulatum x 3,000, his photographs of various Coseinodisd 
and other diatoms. A large series of slides for the lantern was 
made from Dr. Maddox's negatives, and this series had a world- 
wide fame. Dr. Maddox still continues the practice of photo- 
micrography, and his photographs of bacteria, illustrating papers 
which he has recently contributed to the Royal Microscopical 
Society, have been pronounced by competent authorities to be 
unsurpassed even by the splendid productions of Koch. 

Mr. "Wenham, so well known as the inventor of the binocular 
prism in general use, was at one time a very energetic and suc- 
cessful photo-micrographer. Amongst others, the names of Mr. 
Shadbolt, Mr. G. E. Davis, Dr. Abercrombie, Dr. "Wilson, and 
Dr. Redmayne, may be mentioned. Drs. Abercrombie and 
"Wilson were co-workers, and gained considerable reputation by 
their photographs of diatoms, which were produced on wet plates. 
The light used was chiefly that from burning magnesium ribbon. 
The chief characteristics of the photo-micrographs produced by 
these gentlemen appear to have been great softness and delicacy 
of detail. They proved conclusively by their results what had 
before been doubted by many, that good work could be produced 
without a costly heliostat, by artificial light, and in fact without 
any expensive apparatus beyond a good microscope and first-class 



6 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

lenses; for Drs. Abercrombie and Wilson, although working 
without the eyepiece, used only an ordinary short camera, which 
was connected with the microscope by means of a long cone of 
black caHco, supported by rods running from the microscope tube 
to the body of the camera. 

The names of many other English workers must be passed over, 
jfts it is not our intention to write a history of photo-micrography, 
but merely to pass in review the names of the earlier and more 
important photo-micrographers. Suffice it to say, that there 
have been many accomplished photo-micrographers in the past 
in this country who have had the courage to master all the diffi- 
culties, and the patience to bear with all the trials, incident to 
the wet plate process, who have produced work of the very 
highest order ; and that at the present day, thanks to the merits 
pf gelatino-bromide, the number of English photo-micrographers 
is steadily increasing from day to day, and although the many 
will perhaps take up the art merely as a pastime, doubtless there 
will not be wanting patient and steady workers who will practise 
photo-micrography simply for the advancement of science and 
the increase of the sum of human knowledge, and who will find 
in so doing far deeper and more lasting happiness, than in the 
desultory pourtraying of now a fly's leg, then a section of tobacco, 
next a young oyster, simply for the amusement of themselves 
and their friends. 

On the Continent it would appear that photo-micrography haa 
been more highly valued as a scientific tool than among ourselves. 
The scientific men of France and Germany are less conservative 
than our own, and are more ready to take advantage of any new 
process that may be^made subservient to the cause of science. 
Jffence, photo-micrography was at once recognized as a most 
valuable auxiliary in scientific work; the chemist, the botanist, 
the biologist, the physician, and the petrologist, were alike glad 
to avail themselves of its services in illustrating their special work, 
and thus Germany and France can boast of scientific works of 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 7 

the highest value, illustrated by photographs from actual speci- 
mens — works which England has failed yet to produce. Witness, 
for example, the magnificent work of Cohen, ** Collection of 
Photo-Micrographs of Minerals and Kocks,*' Barry's "Photo- 
Micrographs of Botanical Preparations," Reinsch's "Photo- 
Micrographs of the Structure of Coal," and Dr. Koch's unequalled 
works on Bacteria and other minute organisms which are con- 
nected with infectious deseases, all of which are profusely illus- 
trated by photographs from actual specimens. In Prance, at the 
present time, Dr. Miquel, of the Observatory of Montsouris, is 
largely using photo-micrography to record the results of his 
studies of the lower organisms, which are of the highest interest 
and importance. Many other French scientific workers are also 
at the present day making use of photo-micrography to aid them 
in researches where, owing to the minuteness of the objects to be 
depicted, the skill of the engraver utterly fails. It cannot be 
doubted that, as time goes on, the value of photo-micrography 
will be better estimated, and that wherever truth is wanted, the 
sometimes rough rendering of the camera will be far more highly 
prized than the most exquisitely finished picture the engraver's 
tool can produce. 



CHAPTER I. 

MICROSCOPICAL APPARATUS. 

Ant good microscope stand may be employed for photo-micro- 
graphy. It must be really good ; an inferior instrument is use- 
less. It must be firmly and solidly built, and the fine and coarse 
adjustments should be of the best construction. One of the 
cheap microscopes, with a fine adjustment that gradually moves 
the object from the field of view on being turned, will be found 
a source of continual annoyance, and should be avoided. If the 
student have, by ignorance or ill-advice, one of these things, let 
him part with it at any price, and procure one of the low-priced 
but firmly built, well-adjusted stands made by Beck, Collins, 
Ross, or Swift. These will be found to give ample satisfaction. 
The stand figured on page 9, made by Mr. Collins, of Port- 
land Street, is well suited to photo-micrographic work. It is 
well made, takes the full-sized eye-pieces, is furnished with 
a good one-inch and quarter-inch, and costs, with case, only 
£5 10s. A beginner could not have a better instrument. The 
writer uses a stand by Swift, which has a coarse adjustment so 
good, that a 1-1 2th or 1-1 6th inch may be focussed with ease 
and precision with it alone. The shape of the microscope is 
immaterial ; both Ross and Jackson models will give good results 
if well made. A graduated draw-tube should be obtained, which 
had best be velvet-lined, to prevent fiare. The usual dead black, 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS, V 

after a while, wears mifc of the draw-tube, and reniJera the 
microBCope useless for photography j thus a more durable mate- 
rial, Buch as cloth, or velvet, should be used to prevent reflection 
from the sides of the tube. 




Another form of stand, a modification of one manufactured by 
"Wale, of the United States, has lately been introduced by Mr. 
Swift. It is very firmly and solidly built, and baa Ur. Swift's 
patent spiral rack.and-pinion focussing adjustment, which givee 
great smoothness and delicacy of motion ; so much so, that the 
fine adjustment is not needed except for the very highest 
powers. The cut shows the mode by which the microscope is 



HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 




WALK S-JIODBI, MICROBCOFI. 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 11 

firmly clamped in any position. For real rough work, such as 
every microscope has to endure when used for photo-micro- 
graphy, this microscope has no equal. 

Even the experienced microscopist, who may possess one or 
more costly instruments, will find it an advantage to purchase a 
strong useful stand such as this, and thus save the delicate 
adjustments and exquisite finish of his larger and more valuable 
stands. 

The price of this microscope, with cabinet and 1 inch and 1-5 
inch objectives, is £8 8s., or without objectives, £6. A 
well-made stand such as this will last a lifetime, and give 
every satisfaction. The writer has had an extensive experience 
of the microscopes manufactured by Messrs. Swift, and has found 
exact and sound workmanship a characteristic of all, even in 
those of lowest price, while, in the more expensive stands the 
most exacting and fastidious microscopist could not desire 
greater perfection of appliance and finish. 

The college microscope, also manufactured by Messrs. Swift, 
is a good instrument, well adapted to meet the wants of those 
who require a cheaper and simpler form of stand. It is manu- 
factured specially for th^ use of medical students, but makes a 
very good microscope for photo-micrographic work. It is well 
balanced, and the focussing adjustments are both delicate in 
action and very strong. 

The cut on p. 12 shows the more complete form of this instru- 
ment, the cheaper form costing, with case and two objectives, 
£5 5s., and the form with rack and revolving stage, £6 15s. 

Other moderate-priced instruments, suited to the purposes of 
the photo-micrographer, are manufactured by Messrs. Boss, Baker, 
and Beck, but the writer wishes to mention particularly only such 
microscopes as he has personally examined or worked with ; 
however, if the student purchases an instrument from any of the 
makers named, he cannot fail to get a really good instrument, 
capable of doing real, hard work, which will give the utmost 



12 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

Batisfaction ; for the best Englisli makers consider efficiency and 
durability before empty finish, and never turn ont a bad micro- 
flcope, no matter how low-priced. 




Several of the Continental models, such as Hartnack's, would 
he useful for photo-micrography, from their compact shape and 
solidity ; hut their narrow body-tube, which limits the field of 
view^most seriously, and cramped stage, render it adrisable to 
use only English instruments of the latest pattern. If coat be , 
no consideration, then there is nothing to equal one of the large, 
Irst-class microscopes of the best English makers, fitted with 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 13 

every possible convenience in stage and sub-stage. It is true, 
an expert manipulator will obtain excellent results with the 
simplest arrangements ; but it is no less true that it is the 
expert alone who can really appreciate and turn to good account 
the delicate mechanical contrivances which the skill of the 
optician has devised for his aid. Thus, a mechanical stage is 
not absolutely necessary, but it is a great help when working 
with high powers ; and with the very highest powers, it is hard 
to see how it can be dispensed with. The same may be said of 
the sub-stage ; but as this is in some respects more generally 
useful than the mechanical stage, it should be applied to all 
microscopes with which an achromatic condenser or paraboloid 
is to be used. The objections to the tube-fittings usually sup- 
plied with students' microscopes are, the difficulty of properly 
adjusting the sub-stage apparatus, and the very thick upper 
stage that they necessitate. Tor photographic work, the upper 
stage should be as thin as possible, certainly not more than 
one-eighth inch thick, for frequently very oblique light must 
be employed, and this cannot be done with a thick stage, which 
cuts off the rays. Using a thin stage and bull's-eye lens, it is 
astonishing how easily a difficult diatom may be resolved, 
which, with a thick stage, would require the use of an expensive 
condenser. Most of the English makers now fit their micro- 
scopes with thin concentric stages, even when rack-and-pinion 
movement is omitted. 

If a large or medium-size microscope be employed, it should 
be furnished with the swinging sub-stage, by means of which the 
most delicate markings may be brought out with the simplest 
form of achromatic condenser ; while dark-ground illumination 
may be obtained by the mirror alone, simply by swinging the 
sub-stage bar so far to one side, as to allow the rays from the 
mirror to pass through the object too obliquely to enter the 
object-glass. In aU microscopes the mirror should be fixed by 
two crank arms to the tail-piece, to allow of sufficient freedom 



14 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

of motion in using oblique light. If a sub-stage be used, there 
should be an adapter to enable the low-power objectives to be 
used as achromatic condensers, and with the swinging sub- 
stage they will be found most efficient. 

As to lenses, the student is advised strongly to buy the very 
best, if possible. Let him shun cheap French lenses, more 
especially the separating lenses, styled ** French buttons," 
which are frequently supplied with £5 or £6 microscopes, and 
which are only useless rubbish. The stand and lenses should be 
purchased separately ; the latter to suit the requirements of the 
photo-micrographer. If the very best lenses are too expensive, 
then purchase some of the cheap low-angle lenses, now sold by 
most good makers, for these, being well corrected up to the 
angle ascribed to them, are capable of performing a vast amount 
of real work. The beginner will probably find them much 
easier to handle than lenses of wider aperture, owing to their 
greater penetration and working distance ; but the more expe- 
rienced worker will require, especially for photographing very 
minute objects, lenses of the widest possible angle. Lenses of 
wide-angle admit more light, and have far greater resolving 
power than lenses of low-angle ; but they have less working 
distance, and less penetration. The fact that they almost touch 
the object in many cases, when in focus, forms no objection to 
their use for photography ; but it is annoying to have a lens, 
say a half-inch, that will only show the surfaces of objects. This 
objection, however, can be easily disposed of by using a con- 
tracting diaphragm, such as the *' Davis Aperture Shutter," 
made and sold by Mr. Collins, whenever penetration is desired. 
The use of this shutter renders a lens of widest angle equal to 
any low- angle lens, as far as penetration is concerned ; while 
even with the shutter, the wide-angle lens will give superior 
definition, and admit more light than a low-angle lens of the 
same focus. 

The writer has used with great success the low-angle lenses 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 15 

introduced a few years ago by Messrs. Swift. They are low- 
priced — ^the 1 -5th inch costing only £1 12s. — but are capable of 
doing really good work. The l-5th inch will clearly show the 
strise on a small Plmrosigma angulatum, with mirror and A eye- 
piece ; yet, owing to its conical cell and long working-distance, 
can be easily used for exhibiting opaque objects. It is very use- 
ful for photography where great resolving power is not required. 
The half -inch, l-6th inch, and 1- 8th inch, also of low- angle, by 
the same makers, are very satisfactory lenses, as the writer can 
testify from actual use of them ; for ordinary botanical, petro- 
logical, and histological work they are all that can be desired. 
However, as stated above, lenses of the very highest angle will 
be required by the experienced worker, for the very best results 
with difficult subjects can only be gained by using the very best 
instruments, and these are necessarily expensive. Still, there 
is no need to go to the French for cheap lenses, as lenses infi- 
nitely superior, such as those mentioned above, and at about the 
same price, can be obtained from most of our leading opticians. 
A few years ago no cheap lenses, except of foreign make, could 
be purchased, and Mr. Swift was perhaps the very first to intro- 
duce a series of low-angle lenses, which, while as cheap as the 
Prench ones, should be better corrected, and in better mounts. 
In this lie has been followed by all our English makers. 

The choice of lenses will depend, in a great measure, on the 
photographic work to be performed. If the beginner proposes to 
limit himself to the photography of comparatively easy objects, 
lenses of two-inch, one-inch, half-inch, and quarter-inch focus, 
will suffice. A quarter-inch of wide-angle will be found capable of 
resolving the majority of test-objects satisfactorily. A five-inch 
or four-inch wiU be found very useful for photographing large 
objects, such as whole insects, wood sections, and anatomical 
preparations ; while if the student requires a few high powers, 
and cannot afiord the expensive ones of the best English makers, 
he will find the moderate priced immersion lenses of Seibert 



16 now TO PHOTOGRAPH 

equal to all the work that will generally be required of them. 
These lenses are aold by Baker, of Holborn. Immersion lenses 
are specially useful ia photography, as they admit a vast 
amount of light, and are, therefore, very rapid in action. 




The writer can recommend Siebert's lenses with the greatest 
confidence, as he has used several of them at different times, 
especially an immersion one-sixteenth inch, vrhich gave Tiim 
very great satisfaction. Kot only does this lens give good results, 
bat it is very easy to use, gives plenty of light, and has consider- 
able " working distance," and will work well, even through a 
''■hick cover-glass. The one used by the writer has no collar- 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 17 

adjustment, but gives a good sharp image of a diatom on the 
focussing screen, four feet to five feet away from the object. 
Many of the French fourths and eighths are so dark that it is 
difficult to focus with them; such lenses are most unfit for 
photography. A student not over rich might profitably set up 
a battery of lenses, of which the lower powers should be English, 
as these are not only of higher angle, but also are usually better 
mounted than the foreign low powers, and the higher powers, say 
from one eighth-inch upwards, lenses by Seibert, Zeiss, or Leitz. 
For one-twelfths and one-sixteenths upwards, or even from 
the one-eighth inch objective, immersion lenses should be chosen, 
as in photo-micrography they are easier to work with than dry 
lenses, and give far more light. 

Some lenses are not well suited to photo-micrography, their 
visual and actinic foci not being coincident : that is, when an 
object is f ocussed accurately on the screen of the camera, and a 
photograph taken, the picture will be found indistinct and blurred, 
owing to the fact that the rays forming the visual image do not 
lie in the same plane as those forming the photographic image. 
Such lenses may be used for photography, by making experi- 
ments, and determining the amount of allowance for this 
diflference to be made when focussing ; but it is far more satis- 
factory to use lenses which do not require such correction. The 
writer has used lenses by Eoss, Wale, Swift, and Seibert, and 
the visual ai^d actinic foci were coincident in nearly all that he 
has used.* 

Much difference of opinion prevails as to to whether the eye- 
piece should or should not be used in photo-micrography. Some 
assert that the eye-piece spoils good definition. This is possible 
with a bad eye-piece ; but the writer has for years used the A eye- 
piece when photographing with low powers, and has found no 



* Any lens may be eorreeted for'special photographic nse, by the addition 
of a supplementary lens. Cost of this addition about 10s. 

c 



18 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

■lifficolt; in obtainiag photographs absolately sharp i « 
defined to the very edge ot the fielJ. This is also the ex 
ufmany other photo-micrograph era. In the writer's opini i 
is a mere question of convcnicoce : with low powers — ray apto 
tjuarter inch — the eye-piece may be employed, as the loss of 
light attending its use is very alight ; but with higher powcn 
the loBB becomes a serious matter, bo it is then necessary to dis- 
card the eye-piece, or focussing will be very difficult, and the 
i;.\posure of the plate inconvenieotly long. 

An achromatic condenser is a very nsefol piec« of appaistoB, 
bat may be dispensed with for general work ; however, a gwA 




one will save much labour and " dodging " when using high 
powers with difBeult objects. 

Exc«pt for the very highest powers and most delicate work, 
Swift's Popular achromatic coudonser, figured above, will he 
found invaluable. It combines achromatic condenser (which 
works well up to a power of one-eighth inch), spot-lens, polari- 
Hi:ope, diaphragm for test-stops, ordinary diaphragm, and selenite 
diaphragm for use with the polariscope. It has rack-and-pinion 
I'di focuBKing, and can be £tted to any good working microeoope. 
From actual experience of its working, the writer can strongly 
recommend this piece of apparatus, and the photO'Suorogmpher, 
after using it a short time, will be delighted with it ; for Uie 
convenience and advantage of having all the ordimtry adjnnctB to 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 19 

illumination always in place beneath the stage cannot be over- 
estimated. "When not required it can easily be removed. The 
price is four guineas. Messrs. Swift also make a superior con- 
denser similar to the Popular, but more perfect in detail, 
which will suit the advanced worker, as it is capable of being 
used with the highest powers. For all ordinary work, however, 
the Popular will be found amply sufficient. Mr. Collins makes 
a good form of condenser, called the " Webster," which can also 
be used for dark ground illumination. 

Messrs. Watson and Sons, of 313, High Holbom, manufacture 
a very good form of oil-immersion condenser for use with immer- 
sion lenses. It consists of a hemispherical lens mounted in ebon- 
ite, and when in use is placed beneath the object-slide. Through 
the kindness of Messrs. Watson, the writer has had an oppor- 
tunity of severely testing this neat little piece of apparatus, 
which is of the greatest use in resolving troublesome diatoms. 
Of course, it requires practice to use it sufficiently, but when 
the student becomes accustomed to its manipulation, it is 
astonishing how it brings out the resolving powers of a lens. It 
will be found by the photo-micrographer to be most valuable in 
photographing diatoms, test scales, or any objects that require 
considerable obliquity of light. The same firm also make a 
safety stage, for use with high powers and valuable slides. The 
beginner will find it very useful in preventing injury to either 
object or lens when the latter approaches the object rather 
closely. 

For modifying the light, which is sometimes so strong as to 
** drown" very transparent objects, Mr. Collins makes a very 
excellent light-modifier, which consists of a diaphragm, 
into the apertures of which are fitted blue glass discs of different 
shades, and a disc of finely-ground glass. The diaphragm is 
mounted on a stage-plate, which is placed beneath the object. 

Photographing opaque objects is generally found to be ver^ 
unsatisfactory work, from the difficulty of properly illuminat 



20 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

the object, and the consequent long expoBurea required. 3 
ircffk, the bnll's-eye lens alone is not sufficient, but aha 
used in conjunction witb the parabolic reflector. A vei 
form, mannfiwtnred by moat opticiana, is shown below, 
far superior to tbe old Bobb' Silver Side Illuminator, 
the plioto-micrographer will find of very little use. Th 
bolic reflector gives a flood of light, and abolishes the 




sbadovs that so frequently render photogiapbs of 
objects of no value. 

For very oblique light, the hemispherical lens and We: 
disc will be found very useful. They may be obtained a' 



M10E08C0PIC OBJECTS. 21 

price, both moimtod and unmouiited, of llr. Baker, 244, High 
Holbom. The hemispherical lens is perhaps most uaeM vhen 
mounted on s brass slip, but most workers find Wenhara'e disc 
f^ve better results when merely attached to the object-slide with 
a mixture of glycerine and pure white gam. 

The paraboloid and spot^lena are sometimes osed in photo-, 
micrography, but even with the most rapid dry plates, dark- 




gronnd illomination is very difficult, and seldom really suocess- 
•fol. HowcTcr, many objects are best seen when thus ligfbted, 



22 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 

and most of the difficulties vanisli when a good achromatic con- 
denser is used. It is best to dispense with the eye-piece when 
photographing objects illuminated by the paraboloid. 

The bull's-eye lens accompanies most microscopes, and is one 
of the most valuable accessories the microscopist possesses, when 
he has learnt how to use it properly. For photography, a small 
one is of little use ; a large one, like that figured, should be 
obtained. 



CHAPTER 11. 



PHOTOGRAPHIC APPARATUS, 

For simple photo-micrographic operations, any ordinary camera 
may be employed. A quarter-plate camera will answer, but the 
student is advised to obtain a half -plate, or even a whole-plate 
camera, for, as he advances in skill, he will, perhaps, wish ta 
photograph sections of rocks, or wood, or whole insect?, on a 
larger scale than the smaller camera will allow. A good lens 
will make a half or whole-plate enlargement of an object without 
loss of definition. Using the eye-piece, and working with low 
powers, a camera expanding to eighteen inches or two feet will 
suffice, but for the higher powers, which cannot well be used in 
conjunction with the eye-piece, a camera expanding to four feet, 
or even six feet, is recommended. The eye-piece cuts off sa 
much light when working with high-power lenses, that focussing 
becomes difficult, if not impossible ; while without it, focussing 
with a one-twelfth inch or one- sixteenth inch is an easy matter 
even when a condenser is not employed. 

If an ordinary camera be employed, there are none better than 
those sold under the name of " long focus " cameras. The half - 
plate size expands from three inches to eighteen inches or twenty 
inches, which is ample for low powers, especially when working 



24 now TO PHOTOGRAPH 

with the eye-piece. The subjoined illuetration shows a capital 
" long focuB " camera, introduced by Hare, which will answer 
both for landscape and microscopic work, and forms an excellent 




companion for the summer holidays, when the microscope will 
be, or ought to be, laid aside. Even the expert photo-micro- 
grapher will imd the occasional pivictlce of landscape photo- 
graphy a very good way of " keeping his hand in." 

A long copyiog- camera, provided with focussing arrangements 
back and front, makes a very excellent camera for photo-micro- 
graphy. It is very desirable that the front should not be fixed 
to the hase-hoard, hut be capable of either sliding back or moviag 
back by screw, for (requeutly it may be necessary, after all is 
ready for taking a photograph, either to change the position erf 
the object, or alter the illumination, which can he satisfactorily 
performed only by looking down the microscope tube. If the 
camera has to be removed for this purpose, there wUl be some 
difficulty in getting everything square again ; while if the 
camera-front can slide back along the base-boaid, the relative 
position of microscope and screen remains unaltered. Copying* 
cameras suitable for photo -micrography arc to be met with in the 
lists of most dealers in second-hand apparatus. 

If the student cannot procure one of these cameras, he may 
Tory easily construct one for himself. Procure four boards nicely 
planed, {-inch thick, some inches longer than the proposed 



3IICE0SC0PIC OBJECTS. 25 

camera, and J-inch less in width that the bellows are required. 
Make a long box with the hoards, fastening them together at the 




«ndB only with screws. Cover thia box with thin black calico or 
book-binder's cloth, pasting the edges together where they lap 
over, Next cut some slips of thin cardboard, ^inch or J-inch 
vide, and ^inch shorter than the width of the box. Cut the 
oomers off each dip at an angle more acnte than 45*, thus— 



\I 



_/ 



When sufficient have been cut, past« the slips exactly parallel 
on the four sides of the box, about i-inch or i-f inch apart. 
Each slip mnst be pasted on with the cut-ofT ends facing in tiie 
same direction. When the paate is dry, put on au outer cover 
of better material j twilled calico will do, but is somewhat thick 
for the purpose ; good book^binder'a cloth is best. The cdgCB 
ghooldbe pasted together as neatly as possible. When the whole 
is dry, unfasten the end ecrews, when the boards will coUapae 
and tlie bellows can be drawn off. Now proceed to fold it up 
osrefally, by pinching it into shape at the edges of the slips of 
oardboaid, and put the bellows in a copying press, or under 



26 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

heavy weighta, for aday or two. The base-board for this bellows 
should extend in front about 3 feet, so that the microacope and 
lamp may stand upon it. As the bellowa will require no pro- 




tection, the camera-front may consist of a plain vertical booid, 
of the right size, constructed to alide back on the base-hoard 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 27 

about 15 or 18 inches. The dark slide shouJd be purchased^ 
preferably a single one, and the back of the camera made to fit 
it. The camera may be opened or closed by hand alone, the 
back moving in guides screwed along each side of the base^board -^ 
or by endless screw, cut with rather a coarse thread. When the 
endless screw is not used, a screw and butterfly-nut must be 
employed, to clamp the camera in any desired position. 

K the student has not sufficient hand-skill to construct a 

bellows camera, he may make, or have made, the simpler 

arrangement represented above. As will be seen, it consists of 

i series of boxes, fitting into each other after the fashion of a 

sliding body camera. It can easily be lengthened or shortened 

by the addition or removal of one or more boxes. Any joiner 

could easily construct such a camera on seeing the illustration. 

If the photo-micrographer desire specially to make slides for 

the lantern, he will find a little camera sold by the Sciopticon 

Company very convenient. It is made to take plates 3 J in. by 

3 J in., and extends twelve inches. It is very light and compact, 

and costs, with four double slides, only £3 5s. For making 

lantern slides, either by copying, or from views in nature, or 

from microscopic objects, nothing could be more suitable. A 

large size to take J plates is also made, and will suit those who 

prefer to have a margin on their lantern slides, either for tho 

iiame, or for notes on the object. Plates Si in. by 3 J in. 

Diay now be had of any dealer in photographic apparatus. 

Double dark-slides may be employed, if well made, but a 
^gle slide is better, as the focussing-glass can be placed in it, 
and when replaced by the sensitive plate, the latter will lie in 
exactly the same plane, which is of vital importance. For low 
powers, very fine ground glass will answer, but for higher 
powers, plain glass is best. In this case the image must be 
examined by means of a focussing eye-piece. The following 
excellent mode of performing the difficult operation of focussing^ 
^ given by Mr. G. E. Davis, in ** Practical Microscopy : " — 



28 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

^'Eemoving the ground glass slide, another is substituted of 
mahogany, but pierced with a series of seven holes, into each of 
which the ordinary A eye-piece may be fixed. The tliickness of 
the slide is such, that when the eye-piece is pushed in as far as 
it will go, the diaphragm lies in the same plane as the ground 
surface of the glass slide. To anyone accustomed to focus by 
the old method, the present system will be found a considerable 
improvement, it being easy under these conditions to obtain a 
sharp focus with an ordinary paraffin lamp when using the 
iV-inch objective." 

When the camera is extended only a short distance, the hand 
will be able to reach the coarse or fine adjustments of the micro- 
scope ; but when drawn out to three feet or four feet, this will 
be impossible. It then becomes necessary to provide some 
method by which focussing can be easily and exactly performed 
while viewing the image on the screen, the camera being 
extended. Procure a hollow brass rod, J-inch iu diameter, and 
the length of the base-board. Fix it to the side of the board by 
metal " eyes," so that the rod may revolve somewhat stiffly; if 
the camera be supported on trestles, the rod may be fixed under 
the base-board, which is more convenient. Hake a grooved 
wooden wheel, two inches diameter, and fasten it to the rod, so 
that it will be opposite the fine adjustment of the microscope 
when the latter is placed horizontally, with the eye-piece end 
fitted to the camera-front. Make an endless band of narrow 
tape, of such a length that it will pass over the grooved wheel 
and the fine adjustment rather tightly. On turning the 
extremity of the rod, the fine adjustment will be moved with 
sufficient slowness and accuracy to allow of correct focussing 
with a lens of high power. The writer has long used an 
arrangement of this sort when photographing diatoms, and found 
it answer admirably. 

A very excellent photo-micrographic camera has la 
; introduced by Messrs Swift, and is figured below. As will 



* 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 



seen, it is made on the general principles laid down above, but, 
as may be expected, the accuracy of workmanship and general 




finish are only what may be expected in work produced by an 
experienced maker of scientific instruments, and far excel any- 
thing the most skilful amateur can h<^e to produce. Home- 



30 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

made arrangements are often capable of turning out good wo 
in the hands of a patient and skilful manipulator ; but it 
always best, when possible, to avail one's self of the experien 
and skill of the professional mechanic. The greater the perfe 
tion of the instruments, the greater will be the pleasure in usii 
them, and therefore the probability of good results will be mu» 
increased. The attention of the photo-micrographer should 
concentrated upon his special work, which will require all I 
care, and he thus can little afford to be distracted by tl 
annoyance so frequently caused by imperfect apparatus. 

The table upon which Swift's photo-niicrographic ap; iti 
is mounted is supported on three strong turned legs, which, 
portability, are made to unscrew. The microscope is fixed u 
a mahogany board which traverses the centre of the table I 
means of a slot, and can be fixed in any position, the c a 
being arranged in a similar way, which can be extended fi 
twelve to thirty inches by double rack- work. The obje* 
can readily be focussed in any position of the microscoj 
by the milled head at the end of the rod. The microscope 
racked internal draw-tube for adjusting an amplifier when sue 
is required. 

The American photo-micrographers are accustomed to produ( 
photo-micrographs of a much larger size than is usual am 
us. English workers appear rarely to attempt anything lar 
than quarter-plate size, or 5 inches by 4. inches ; while 
Americans frequently employ a power as high as i-inch t 
produce 10 in. by 8 in., or 12 in. by 10 in. pictures. Theory 
here of little use : it is not a question of what ought to be don< 
but of what can be done. An enlargement from a small negati^ 
ought, theoretically, to be better than a large negative take 
direct, but it very rarely is so ; and the writer is inclined ' 
agree with those American photo-micrographers who advo( 
the use of large plates with lenses of high angle — excepting, 
course, where only lantern slides are required. The very be 



31ICROSCOPIC OBJECTS.. 31 

photographs of rock-sections that the writer ever saw, were 
done on plates 8J inches by 6^^ inches, with powers varying 
from 2 inches to i-inch. 

In addition to the apparatus already mentioned, the following 
will be required: — A macintosh focussing-cloth; ebonite or 
glass dishes for developing and fixing negatives ; glass measures, 
say, 2-oz., 4-oz., and 6-oz. capacity ; basins for washing nega- 
tives ; a porcelain dish for toning prints, and another for fixing 
iihem. Backs may be used for drying the negatives, but in 
winter, standing them up on a warm mantelpiece is as good a 
plan as any, unless the plates be made with very soft gelatine, 
when catastrophes may be expected in the shape of distortion of 
:the image, or even melting of the gelatine. 



CHAPTER III. 

ILLUMINATING APPARATUS. 

Ik this country photo-micrography by daylight is trouUeaome 
and unsatisfactory. The sun shines brightly duiing so few 
months of the year, and is so fickle when he makes his appear- 
ance, that the photo-micrographer is compelled to fall baok on 
artificial light to do his work. In many respects sunlight would 
be preferable, were it only always at the command of the photo* 
micrographer ; it costs nothing, is rapid in its action, is more 
powerful than any other light, and exhibits objects illuxnined by 
it as we are accustomed to see them. The chief disadvantage 
of using the sun as a source of light is, that, owing to the eaith's 
motion, the direction of the light is continually altering, necessi- 
tating the use of an expensive reflecting instrament* called a 
heliostat, to keep the rays constantly in any required direction. 
The use of artiflcial light has been condemned by many. One 
photo-micrographer even goes so far as to say " artificial light is 
a delusion ; " but on comparing results we shall find that, at 
least since the advent of rapid dry plates, photo-micrographs 
"^ave been taken by many workers fully equal to any produced 
nr daylight. In fact, certain photo-micrographers who have 
"Mst strongly advocated the use of sunlight, have not produced 
»rk even equal to that which may be done by any manipulator 
moderate ability with artificial light after a few months' 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 



ractice. Artificial light ia much more easy to manage than 
light, and does not vary bo much in actinic quality; hfince 




tbont BftMU Mcoad* U 



ee are easy to calculate, and the illnmination ia'mon 
under control. 



34 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

The light given by burning magnesium is the rieb in t lie 
rays. If the student possesses a Solomon's magn< im lamp, 
^nll find no difficulty in working with this light, t T ' 

tion to the lamp being that it consumes the m i 

rapidly, and thus becomes too expensive to be used c f< 

It may, however, be used with great advantage w oto- 

graphing very minute objects with high powers. 1 
economical mode of using magnesium ribbon is to bi it 
holder made of tin or brass tube, the bore being just lari I 

to admit the easy passage of the ribbon. The tube sboi x 
about six inches long, and mounted on a stand similar to 
the bull's-eye condenser, with joints to admit of pro 
ment. 

When using the holder, a spirit lamp should be placed o 
site the achromatic or other condenser, and the i 
holder placed in such a position that when the ribi i !Ji 
through the tube, it may enter the flame of the lit '. 
Some difficulty may be experienced in getting the ribb in 
properly illuminate the screen, but a few experiments wil 
render the matter easy. The writer has made considerable usi 
of the above simple apparatus, and very satisfactorily; but as i 
necessitates two manipulators — one to attend to the light wl 
focussing and arranging the correct position of the light, i 
another to superintend the screen and focus— he muoh p: 
for all purposes, a good paraffin lamp. 

A well-made lamp is necessary, but good paraffin etil] 
Avoid all low-priced, strong-smeUing oils. Paraffin 1 at 8d 
per gallon is not only unflt for photo-micrography, but t 
dangerous. When burnt in any lamp with a large wiok, it I 
to evaporate rapidly as the lamp gets warm, and after a wj 
the flame will rush up the chimney, blackening it, 
cracking it, and frightening the operator, if doing nothing J 
Eeliable paraffin may be had at Is. 6d. par gallon, and 
give more satisfaction in every way. Duplex lamps ] lifl 



MIOBOSOOPIC OBJECTS. 35 

used, but fhej present no adTantc^s for photo-mierograpby* 
They gire out mneh heat, consume a large quantity of oil, and 
Che double wick is troublesome when using high poMrers. A 
■ingie wick is far preferable, but it should be the broadestpossiUe 
to obtain. 

The lamp devised by Mr. Dallinger specially for working with 
high powers is, perhaps, the yery best yet made ; but photo- 
graphs can be taken with any paraffin lamp. For some time the 
writer used a tiny microscope lamp, and took some very success^ 
fill photographs with lenses varying from 2 inches to l-5th inch| 
but the exposure was necessarily ^long with all of them. The 
obfect of the photo-micrographer should be to make his exposures 
as abort as possible, and this can only be done by using a powerful 
laoq^ and a vigorous developer. 

The light from a broad-wick paraffin lamp will be found suffi- 
cient for even high-powers, but the brilliancy of the light may be 
muoh increased by putting a lump of camphor in the bowl of the 
lamp. (Gaslight and candle-light are far too unsteady to be used 
for photo-micrography. 

A very good lamp, well-suited to photo-micrography, and 
pring abundance of light, can be obtained at most lamp shops, 
or made to order at a small price. The wick should be 1^ inches 
or 2 inches wide, and the body of the lamp should be of metal, 
not glass nor china, as such lamps continually give annoyance 
through the burner becoming uncemented from the reservoir. 
Vhen made of metal, the burner can be firmly soldered to the 
ittervoir, and the chance of your lamp becoming useless just at 
die most important moment is avoided. The racks for turning 
19 the wicks should be of good quality, for in cheap lamps the 
(lek soon gets out of order, and becomes clogged in the wick, 
lAich can thus be neither turned up nor down. GK>od micro- 
Mpe lamps are made by Collins, Boss, Swift, and others, which 
irill also answer for photo-micrography. The Fiddian lamp of 
Bobs is a very excellent one, but somewhat troublesome to 



36 HOW TO f HOIOORAPH 

keep in good marking order ; the " Sockett " lamp of Col 
" Best micioscope lamp " of Swift, and the aev lamp of 
of Birminghiim, will all be found satia&ctaiy. Swift's 
figured beloy ; it is strongly made, and in many respect 




most oonT^ent and perfect lamp yet made for general i 
la fitted vith porcelain shade. 

The student who possesses a magic lantern or i opti< 
find it a very useful adjunct in photo-micrography, t 
mination is much more intense, and the heat much 



MICBOSCOPIC OBJECTS. 37 

th ordinary lamps. ITsing one of these lanterns, the time of 
«x re is much lessened. Whatever lamp be used, great care 
fib 1 be taken to cut the wick level every time the lamp is re- 
quired. For difiPased light with low powers, the lamp should be 
used with the flame turned '' broadside " to the lens ; while with 
the high powers, where the greatest intensity of light is needed, 
the flame should be turned with its edge to the lens. Duplex 
lamps answer fairly well when photographing with low powers, 
but with powers from J- inch upwards it is very difficult to get 
satisfactory illumination, as there is a shadow from the two 
£ames. 



CHAPTER IV. 

EXPOSING THE PLATE. 

No rule can be laid down as to the duration of the exposure. It 
depends (Ist) on the focal length of the lens used; (2nd) its^ 
aperture, wide-angle lenses being far quicker than those of low- 
angle ; (3rd) the nature of the light used ; (4th) the nature of 
the object, yellow and brown objects always requiring a pro- 
longed exposure; (5th) the development. An operator who 
uses a weak developer will always expose his plates for an un- 
necessarily long time. The beginner will perhaps think the 
exposure the most difficult part of photo-micrography, but as he 
progresses he will alter his mind, and think the proper illumina- 
tion of the object far more difficult. 

Using a good paraffin lamp, and lenses of from 5 inches to 
one-sixteenth inch, exposures may vary from a fraction of a 
second to half an-hour. For instance, the larva of a flea, a very 
transparent object when properly illuminated, will not require 
more than half a second with the two-inch objective ; while 
with the same lens, a section of coal may require twenty minutes. 
The section of Alveolina limestone figured below, although of a 
white colour, and apparently very transparent, had an exposure 
of fifteen minutes. As a rule, all rock sections will require a 
ra 3r long exposure, as they stop a large amount of light. AU 
ons should be as thin as possible ; yet a good colour is of 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 



moie importance than thinness. The writer has a section of a 
tertiary limeetone from Bengal, of a strong yelloir colour, which 
he has often vainly tried to photograph Batisfactorily, althongh 
the section ia most admirably cut, and very thin. 




In photographing rock sections, polarized light will frequently 
be required to bring ont the structure properly. There are 
many rock sections which show little or no detail when viewed 
by ordinary light, yet which are seen to be of very complex 
stmotnie when polarized light is used. Again, in petrology the 
polariscope ia a most valuable help in assisting the student to 
analyse the constitnents of a rock, or distingaish between different 
minerals. Thos in photographing soctiona of rocks, polarized 
ligllt must often be employed. Unless the photo- micrographer 
can TUB a powerful achromatic condenser with the polaiiacope, 



HOW TO PHOTOOBAPH 



Dged M in Swift's " Popular CondenBei," he will find tliat 
ized light necesBitatea a very long expoenre. It will re- 
re considerable experience to use the polariaoope BnGoeBstnllf 
}hotograph7, for the arrangtiment of prisms that gives the 
: effect on the screen does not always ^ve the beet results on 




WIKQ Of HIDOB (PBTCHODA). 

negative. For example, the novice will be annoyed to find 
brilliant blues come oat tehtte in the finished photc^raph, 
» teds, pinks, &c., are translated into difierent shades oi 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 41 

black. Perhaps it may be best, as a rule, to use only the ^ore 
" non-actiiiic " tints in photographing with the polariscope. 

The wing of a midge, here shown, will serve as a good ex- 
ample of a very transparent object, which yet has plenty of 
detail. This object had an exposure of one second : less would 
have sufficed with a more powerful lamp. 

High powers, being used chiefly with very transparent objects, 
do not require the tremendous exposures that people generally 
imagine. A one-sixteenth inch, when properly illuminated, 
will give a good clear image on the focussing screen Ave feet 
away from the object. When the writer first began using high 
powers, he heard such exaggerated statements about the difficulty 
attending their use, and the long exposures they required, that 
on first trying P. aiigtdatuniy he gave an exposure of an hour to 
this transparent object. On developing, the plate came out 
almost clear glass ; only a faint ghost of the object could be seen 
on the plate. A subsequent exposure of fifteen minutes, under 
the same conditions, gave a fair negative. All objects are not 
fitted for photography, therefore it may be taken as a rule that 
if any object bears an exposure of half-an-hour with any lens, 
without being fully exposed, it is simply useless to attempt it. 
There is a little scarlet mite, common in gardens, the scarlet 
Tromhidiumy which, owing to its colour, may be exposed for 
almost any period without getting any better photograph than a 
blank outline. Such objects should, if possible, be bleached 
l)efore attempting to photograph them. 

When magnesium ribbon is used as the source of light, the 
exposures become very rapid. The writer has never used this 
light with low powers, but he has found ten seconds to fifteen 
seconds ample for diatoms with the one-sixteenth inch objective. 

The dry plates recommended for photo-micrography are the 

most rapid in the market. The writer has used Swan's ten 

times collodion, and thirty times collodion ; and while ^liie ten 

times are excellent for low powers, he still prefers the thirty 



42 



HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 



times plate for every purpose. He has also used plates still more 
rapid, and found them satis&ctory in every way. Very re^ 
plates are often difficult to manipulate when used for landscape 
work, but when used for photo-micrography they become as easy 
to develop as any slow plate, while they have the great advan- 
tage of increased rapidity. The writer is not alone in advising 
the use of rapid plates, for the author of '' Practical Microscopy'' 
has obtained good results on Swan's fifteen times plate, while 
Dr. Sternberg, one of the most experienced and accomplished cf 
living photo-micrographers, uses Eastman's instantaneous diy 
plates. The maker of the plates is of little importance. The 
writer has tried most of the makes in the market, and has got 
good results with all. The chief thing is that the plates be 
made of good hard gelatine. If a sample of plate be found to 
be prepared with soft gelatine, reject it at once. Prilling may 
bo laughed at, but shrinkage of the film is simply ruin to aU 
good work. 




ABKANOBMBNT OF MICB0800PB WITH 8H0BT CAME&A FOB V8B WITH BTl* 

PIECE. 

A, lamp ; B, condenser ; C, microscope ; D, short camera ; E, block to sup- 
port camera. 

"We come now to the actual exposure of the plate in the camenu 
First place the object on the stage of the microscope, choose your 
lens, and bring the object into focus. ^Notice carefully the chief 
^ints that you wish to be shown clearly in the photograph, that 
special attention may be paid to them in focussing and exposing, 
rhen lay the microscope in the horizontal position, place the 
imp in front, and adjust the illuminating apparatus in the best 



mOBOSOOPIO OBJECTS. 



4a 



>otdtian. The object may be seen best irith oblique light ; in 
his caae be very careful, or the plate may not be fully illtuuiu- 
ited, Then the negative would be rendered worthleas. "When 
^ illnmination has been satisfactorily adjusted, draw the front 
Dt the camera up until the eye-piece of the microscope fits in the 
bde made for its reception. A hood of black velvet will proba- 
Uf be necessary to render the connection of camera and micro- 
l»pe light-tight. This done, view the object on the screen, 
vhieli will be very indistinct. If the adjustments of the micro- 
Wipe are within reach, by their means slightly withdraw the 
im from the object until the latter is in good focus. If the 
^e-pieoe be removed, and the adjustments are, therefore, out of 
nuh, by reason of the length of the camera, turn the focussing 
ndimtil a satisfactory focus be obtained. "WTien this is accom- 
plillied, leave the apparatus for a few minutes to allow of its 







; C, lamp ; C, winch ecrav ; E, baie-faoacd ; F, 
; G, band coDUecting F irith wheel of rod, L ; H, block eup- 
; K, table; L, wheel o( focusaing rod ; M, facuBaing tod ; N, 
n for moviiig camera front. 

Opansion &om the heat of the lamp. With low powers, this 
e^ttnsion is hardly likely to affect the results, but with high 
POivers is very injurious. 

fiometimes, in fact, when using a high power, the expansion 
dOiB metal parts of the apparatus during a long exposure may 
l* » great as to throw the object quite out of focus. It is thus 
■Ivieable to place the lamp as far away from the microscope as 



44 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 

possible, consistent with snitable illumination. The writer 
frequently uses a card-board screen between the lamp and 
microscope, with an aperture to allow the rays to pass through. 
By this means the microscope is kept cool, and possible injury 
to the lens averted. The alum cell, used with the heliostat to 
stop the heat rays, can hardly be used successfully with lamp- 
light. Sometimes, however, a thin cell, containing ammonio- 
sulphate of copper, may be employed when photographing very 
transparent diatoms, and answers the double object of keeping 
off the heat from the lamp, and giving a more diffused light. 
For the latter purpose, with low powers only, a strip of fine 
ground glass or oiled paper may be placed beneath the object. 
A slide of blue glass, 3 inches by 1 inch, is also used by some 
operators for softening the light. 

All being ready for an exposure, a blackened card must be 
placed opposite the lens, or below the stage, to cut off the light. 
With a low power, the card should be in front of the lens. The 
dark slide may then be inserted, and the shutter drawn up. 
After waiting for a few moments to allow all vibration to cease, 
the card in front of the lens must be rapidly removed. During 
the exposure, the operator must abstain from walking about the 
room, for the vibration so produced would injure the sharpness 
of the picture, more especially with low powers and short ex- 
posures. When the exposure is deemed sufficient, the blackened 
card must be replaced in front of the lens, and the shutter pushed 
down. If other exposures are to be given, do not turn the lamp 
down, but leave the flame the full height, until the next plate 
can be inserted in the camera. In this way the alternate 

pa n and contraction of the microscope, &c., is avoided. If, 
reloping, the first negative be found either over- or under- 

pt try again, without disturbing the apparatus. 

The two following figures illustrate the method adopted by 
workers of using the microscope in a dark room, and thus 
using with a camera. If the student have sufficient room 




a, Htgneiinm lamp; i, eDDdetiBern ; t, mioraBciipe ; d, foonisiog rod 
•U*eh«d to fine adjustment ; », snpport of mfcraaoope ; /, gapport of toemalog 
nattaag, indmaTiDg bHckvards and fanrardn in ■ line witti th« microwupa, 
«itbei in guides oronruU; g, focuBBing-acreen. 




46 



HOW TO PHOTOQBAPH 



ftt luB dispoeal, and can fit np an apartment specially for his 
irork, perhaps tbiB arrangement is tlie very beet that can he 
need ; it is, however, hardly suited to banners. The references 
to each figure will suffice to explain the general arrangement of 
the apparatus. 

The oxy-hydrogen microBcope has frequently been proposed 
for QHC in photo-micrography, but no lantem-microHcope as yet 
brought before the public has really given satisfactory resnlti. 
However, lately, Mesera. Swift and Son have broaght oat sn 
■oxy-hydrogen gas microscope, which is figured below, and which 




IB 08dd to meet the wanta of the photo-micrographer in a remaA- 
aUe manner. It is of an entirely new constmotion, with which 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 47 

ordinary micro-objectiyes, from 4 incli to ^incb, can be used. 

gas jet is so constructed that it can be easily adjusted for 
(rergent or parallel light without the necessity for opening the 
■i L. The perforated metal base upon which the whole is 

ited allows a continuous current of air to pass through for 
purpose of keeping the lantern cool. The frame or base 
ids upon three adjusting screws to arrange the position of the 
of light. The tube into which the supplementary apparatus 
daptedy is cut open to enable these parts to be dropped into 
tion, and which are then covered by a revolving segment 
liar to the action of the breech part of the Martini-Henry 
I, th preventing the necessity of displacing the stage, &c.y 
] these in the ordinary manner. It has coarse and fine 
its for focussing, which will work perfectly steady at 
d nee from the screen. The stage has rectangular move- 

3 by means of milled heads, and the clip holding the object 
I damp either the thinnest slide or the thickest zoophyte 

~i. The alum trough for stopping the heat can be used 

L the light and condenser when convergent rays are 

a d. For parallel light it is placed in the opening in front 

he condensers, thus, when the alum trough is not required 

his position, the opening is closed by an inside revolving tube. 



CHAPTER V. 

DEVELOPMENT. 

The development of a photo-micrograph does not difPer mud' 
from that of other negatives, but requires somewhat mow 
patience, as the image on a properly exposed plate is usoall; 
very slow in appearing, and must not be " forced " in any way 
Any ordinary dry-plate developer may be used, but the w 
has found that known as the sulphite developer answer b* 

Eerrous oxalate is recommended by some photo-micit apl 
notably by Dr. Sternberg, but is hardly sufficiently "eh "1 
satisfy all requirements. It has the great merit of being clean ai 
simple, while it never stains the negatives, as some preparatio] 
of pyrogallic acid do ; but the operator will find that with 
developer he has very little control over the development. J 
fact, the development is so mechanical, that some operators, 1 
Dr. Sternberg, are content to place the plate in the solut 
and let it take its chance. No one who has become used 
pyrogallic acid will ever care to use ferrous oxalate, and t 
writer would not advise the beginner to use it, but at once 
master the difficulties of pyrogallic acid and ammonia. 

However, as some may prefer to try what can be done i 
ferrous oxalate, the formula for this developer is given here :- 

Saturated solution of ferrous sulphate ... 1 part 

Saturated solution of potassic oxalate ... 3 parts 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 49 

le potassic oxalate should be neutral, but as it frequently is 
kaline, a few crystals of oxalic acid may be added, until the 
Intion is neutral to test paper. The ferrous sulphate should 
added to the potassic oxalate, not vice versa. A solution of 
tassic bromide, 20 grains per ounce, should be kept at hand. 
fetw drops of this will be useful to add to the developer in 
Be of over-exposure. 

For several years the writer used the following form of the 
TO developer, which will be found to give good results : — 

A. — Pyrogallic acid Jounce 



Sodic sulphite 
Water 
Citric acid... 

B. — ^liquor ammonise 
Potassic bromide 
Water 



•• 



...40 ounces 
... 1 dr. 

i ounce 
...40 grains 
...40 ounces 



lese form stock solutions, and will keep indefinitely. Both 

d better be kept in stoppered bottles. The sodic sulphite 

be good ; otherwise, good results need not be expected. 

writers have stated that sodic sulphite produces green 

but this is hardly correct. The writer had used the 

ke developer for over two years before he saw anything 

! gD fog. He had been accustomed to buy his chemicals 

I good chemist; and had always paid Is. 6d. per pound for 

sulphite. Happening once to require some immediately, 

»nrchased a sample from the nearest shop, and paid 6d. per 

for it. It was wretched looking stuff, but he made 

b up. On developing, every plate was covered with a glorious 

of green fog. Happily, this was completely got rid of by 

H. Parmer's solution, which will be described further on. 

r Buy the best chemicals from a good chemist, and do not 

the price paid for them. 

the writer has used the following modification of Dr. 



50 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

Stolze's potash developer, wluch appears eminently suited to 
the requirements of the photo-micrographer : — 

No, l.'-^Pyro Solution. 

"Warm water ... 2 ounces 

Sulphite of soda (pure) ... 2 y, (437 grs. to oz.) 

When cold add — 

Sulphurous acid 2 ,, 

Pyrogallic acid ^ ounce of 218 grs. 

No. 2. — Potash Solution. 

A.— Water ... ... ••• ... ... 4 ounces 

Pure carb. of potash (437 grs. to oz.) 3 „ 

jd."'^ vY abcr ••• ... ... ... ... o >> 

Pure sulphite of soda (437 grs. to oz.) 2 „ 

Combine A and £ in one solution. Eor rapid exp< 
3 ounces water, and add to it i ounce of No. 1, and 3 d 
No. 2. This suffices for a whole plate. For very ra 
posures the developer may be used even stronger. To 
plates over-exposed, begin with only a few drops of No. 2, 
if the over-exposure has been great, dilute the de^ [>] 2 

an equal bulk of water. The elasticity of this develo] is' 
great, and by using it in strong or dilute form, great latit ol 
exposure is admissible. In a letter to the Photogbaphic ^j 
the writer attributes the following good qualitieB to the p 
developer : — Ist. Freedom from noxious fumes ; 2nd. CI U- 
ness — it stains neither the fingers nor the plates ; 3rd. It is 
pletely under control ; 4th. No bromide nor other r» ai 
is required ; 5th. It gives clear, brilliant, quick-pri] g 
tives; 6th. It is far more powerful than the ordir j pyw 
and ammonia developer, hence far more suitable for instan- 
taneous work and for photo-micrography. No forcing of thfi 
image is necessary; and the details in the shadows of 
instantaneous picture come out with due strength. Howe 
it^is absolutely necessary to use pure carbonate of po 



MIOBOSCOPIO OBJECTS. 51 

fioessarily pure for analysts; pure sodic sulpliite, as common 
nlpUte is worse than nseless ; aad really strong sulphurous add. 
>hoto-micrographer had better make the sulphurous acid 
if by acting either on copper or hyposulphite of soda, 
II phuric acid. The advantages gained by having the 

8 acid full strength fully compensate one for the little 
tnm irred in making it.* 

Another modification of the pyrogallic developer is given by 
Mr. 8. Fry, as follows : — 

A.— Acid pyro ... ... ... ... 1 ounce 

Saturated acid solution of sodic sul- 
phite ... ... ... ... 12 ounces 

B.— Ammonium bromide 300 grains 

Ammonia liquor 2 ounces 

vYauer .*• ... ... ... i^ ^i 

T^ 1 ounce of A ; put it in a 20-ounce bottle, pouring on it 
16 oonoes of water. Bo the same with £. Use equal parts for 
dsTdapmg. 

A new developer has lately been introduced by Messrs. Egli 
liid Spiller — ^hydroxylamine hydrochloride. The following is 
fte formula: — 

A. — ^Hydrozylamine hydrochloride ••• 32 grains 

Citric acid... ... ... ••• 15 „ 

Potassium bromide 20 „ 

"Water 1 ounce 

B.— Caustic soda • 1 drachm 

Water ... •• 1 ounce 

C. — ^Potassium bromide 20 grains 

"Water ... ... 1 ounce 

For a 7i-X5 plate the film is first soaked for about one minute 

* Anhydrous sulphurous acid is now an article of commerce, and can be 
baied in syphon bottles. 



52 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

in Bi ounces of water, containing 1 drachm of A, about 
drops of £ is then added, and if necessary an extra ten or 
Should the image show signs of over-exposure, or if the p 
is one of the specially sensitive kind, a few drops of C must b 
used to restrain the action still more. The advantages result 
from the use of this developer are the following : — 

1. The image is of a wet-plate tone, perfectly free from 
or deposits. 

2. A great variation of exposure is admissible. 

3'. The solution is not acted upon by the atmosphere, and th 
fore does not deteriorate during development from external 

To develop a plate, proceed as follows :— Have a good- 
lamp glazed with pale red glass, not with the black abomina 
generally called '' ruby," which is almost opaque to light, 
good lamp may be made from any kind of box, by fitting to it 
sliding pane of red glass in place of the lid, and putting a 
parafiSn lamp therein. A chimney should be made at the top, 1 
ventilate the box. This arrangement will give a flood of 
without endangering the plate. The writer always doT 
close up to the lamp, and has never yet fogged a plate. If 
operator cannot see what he is doing, he need not expect i 
negatives, but may reasonably look for indication of faili 
sight after a few months' work. So, to get good negati' 
save temper and eyesight, have plenty of light of the right 
No light is really non-actinic, and much of the "ruby" j 
in use is quite as unsafe to use as the yellow g 
developing wet coUodion plates. Tet, once in the d e 
even yellow glass may be used with complete safety. It is 
while the plate is dry that exposure to a strong light is lik 
act injuriously. Thus, in changing plates, or in taki 
from the slides to develop, let the lamp be sh i or 
down ; but while developing, every detail must be f 

To proceed. Place the developing dish near t Li 
into the developing cup, for a half-plate, 1 ounce t | 



HIOBOSGOFIG OBJECTS. 



53 



lie solntioii, and jounce of the ammoma and bromide, 
fbe plate in the di^, and pour over it the mixed soln- 
. If the image mna out rapidly, pour the developer off, 
[ ma^ np a ftesh developer dF 1 ounce pyro and 1 diachm 
monia and bromide. If, after this, the detdl does not come 
satifitactorily, ponr the developer back in the cap, and add 
:e anunonia. By varying thia mode, plates that have received 




>x. 2-incli obj. 

ty times the correct exposure may be satisfactorily developed, 
ryvrill hardly have the briUianoe and "plack"of aproperly- 
oaed negative, but will yield f^ prints. 
( theimage does not make its appearanceafter it has beeaia 



54 HOW TO PHOTOGKAPH 

the developer about a jsdaaie, add tbe remaining i ounce 
ammonia eolation. The image will then slowly ap r, if 
plate haa been properly exposed; but if nnder-expo» onl 
farther doses of ammonia will bring it oat. In the lat 
take no farther trouble with the plate, but at once | 
another, for an under-exposed plate is simply useless. 

It will be found, in developing some negatiTes, that one 
will develop more readily than another, and become so d 
to be quite unprintable. The photograph given above (pa 
of oz) is an example of this. On developing, the body ap] 
first, and became of an alarming blackness before the legs '. 
got little more than their outline. The developer was at 
thrown off, and the negative well rinsed in water. I 
developer was made up, and the tray tilted up, so that wl 
the negative was again placed in the dish the developer ti 
cover the parts only partially developed, which in this c i 
the head and legs. The dish was gently rocked all the 
and the negative, when finished, was of uniform density. J 
this means the after reduction of the negative was avoided. 

If the development proceed satisfactorily, don't be in 
hurry to take the plate from the development ; over-de 
ment will not do much harm, while the contrary would n 
When all the details are well out, examine the plate, by h* 
it up before the lamp. Should it prove sufficiently dense, i 
it in water, and place it for a minute in a solution of alum a 
citric acid ; wash again, and put it in another dish contain] 
hyposulphite of soda made up thus : — 

Hyposulphite 4 ounces 

Water ... ,,, ... ,«« «•« 2U ^ 

When the creamy bromide of silver is dissolved, whioh may 
known by the plate becoming quite clear and transparent, | 
the negative in fresh hyposulphite for a few minutes ; no t 
need be entertained of tiie hyposulphite solution noeahming \ 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 55 

negative. Then put the plate in running water for half-an- 
lurar. This will be sufficient, but any trace of hypo will be got 
lid of in the next bath : — 

Alum ... ... ... ••• ... 2 ounces 

Citric acid ... ••• 1 ounce 

Water 20 ounces 

Tids Bolution will also harden the film, and render it less liable 
to injury from scratches or wet. The final immersion in alum 
dumld be regarded as absolutely necessary. It will brighten 
up the negative, removing any stains which the developer may 
ks?e left, and make it ** quicker printing." 

The negative should not be dried too rapidly. In fine dry 
1 it can be best dried by placing it out of doors. In 

111 ' time, the writer stands his negatives on a warm mantel- 

where they dry in one or two hours. The only precau- 
t to be observed is, that the plate should have pre^ously 

soaked in the alum bath for at least five minutes ; other- 

if the film be composed of soft gelatine, the heat of the 

Ipiece is apt to melt it. 



CHAPTER VI. 



DEFECTS IN THE NEGATIVE. 

As the defects inphoto-micrograpliic negatives are very numeroiiB 
it may be well to mention the chief, and their remedies, wl 
fiuch exist. 

1. Uheqtuil Illumination, — This is very apt to occur *? 
using very oblique light, but may happen also with central 1 
from improper arrangement of condensers, &c. This defect i 
be known by the negative being dense on one side of the plate 
and thin on the other. Do not blame the plate-maker for in 
properly levelling his plates ; this defect sometimes occurs, 1 
very rarely. If the difference of density on each side is not ' 
marked, it may be remedied by using matt varnish on the thi 
side of the plate, to diffuse the light when printing. Adding 
little yellow dye to the varnish often improves the result, 1 i 
all cases the rough edge of the varnish should be softened by ' 
use of a little alcohol or ether, or a nasty mark will be left 
the print, just under the boundary line of the varnish. 

2. Too Fotverful Illumination, — ^In this case the object i 
'^drowned in light," and the picture comes out flat a: 
degraded. Eemedy : take another negative. 

3. Mefleetion from the Apparatus, — ^When the tube of 
microscope is not lined with cloth or velvet, a bright central i 



HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 57 

often be seen on the screen while focussing, and a corre* 
ig black patch will be found on the negative, which will 
h worthless. When usrng the eye-piece, this defect will not 
be met with. Eeflection from the camera will also ruin the 
oegatiye, also using the eye-piece without the cap. Let the 
inside of the camera and microscope tube be a dead black. 

4. *Aeee98 of Stray Light to the Plate, — Probably through the 
connection of camera and microscope not being light-tight. 
Besult — general fog. Use a thick black velvet hood to connect 
the microscope with the camera, and keep it in place with elastic 
holds. 

6. Oreen Jfog, — This may arise from the use of impure sodic 
aolphite, or, in the plain pyro developer, from using too much 
ismioma. 3reen fog appears to be a silver deposit, from the 
&ct that certain silver solvents get rid of it at once. Bichromate 
of potash, or peroxide of hydrogen, may be used, but the writer 
leoommonds the following, which is given by Mr. Howard 
Paimer in the Ybak-Book for 1884 : — 

A — ^Potassium f erricyanide 1 ounce 

Water 20 ounces 

B. — Sodium hyposulphite 1 ounce 

Water ... 20 ounces 

Ent wet the negative if it has been dried. Pour a little of the 
Irypo solution in a cup, and add a few drops of the ferricyanide 
i^tion. Dip a plug of cotton- wool in this mixture and sponge 
the negative rapidly with it ; then plunge it in water, and wash 
welL All traces of green fog will have disappeared. 
6. Over-exposure. — ^This should be controlled in the develop- 

. After-intensification rarely produces even tolerable nega- 
tires from over-exposed plates. If much over-exposed, don't 
wa time in trying to patch up the negative, but expose 

er plate. 



58 



HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 



7. Vnder'expoture. — There is no cure for this evil; dei 
the negative and take another. 

8. Under-developmrnt. — An nnder-developed plate is use 
Don't hnny the development, but be sure all possible detail 




been worked ont, and examine the negative tor density b 
the lamp. 

9. TMnneu. — The negative appears folly exposed 
developed, but is too thin to give good piints. In this cas 



MICEOSOOPIO OBJECTS. 59 

fhe effect of coyering the back with matt- varnish, and print in 
tiie shade. Xever intensify a negative before trying how it will 
print. Many a negative that appears too thin will give perfect 
prints. The negative from which the accompanying illustration 
of " Palpi of Male Spider " was taken furnishes a good example 
of this. This negative appears a mere " ghost," but prints well 
and strongly. Had it been intensified it would probably have 
been rained. If the matt-varnish does not mend matters, the 
negative must be intensified. There is a choice of intensifiers, 
but the mercury and silver intensifiers are most generally used. 
The mercury intensifier is made as follows : — 

A. — ^Saturated solution of mercuric chloride. 

B. — ^liquor of ammonia ... ... 10 drops per oz. 

After soaking the negative in water, it is placed in the bichloride 
solution until it becomes uniformly white. If requiring only 
dight intensification, it must be left in only a few seconds, or it 
"Will become too dense. Then wash well for five minutes, when 
tile negative must be placed in £, which will turn the plate to 
a dark colour. With a little experience, this intensifier will be 
ft^md very useful, but all intensification should be avoided if 
possible. Look for good results to the development alone, and 
let intensification be merely a last resource. 

Other intensifiers are potassium sulphide and ammonium sul- 
phide; either salt may be made up to the strength of 1 drachm 
to 20 ounces of water. 

One of the best silver intensifiers is that given by Mr. "W. 
Brooks, and is as follows: — ''After the plate has been well 
Washed from the hypo, place it in a weak solution of alum and 
<^tric acid solution : 

Stock Solution. 

Saturated solution of alum 10 ounces 

Citric acid ... ... ••• ... ... 1 ounce 



€0 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

For the solution above-named, I dilute one part to four of water^ 
allow t;lie plate to remain in it about five or six minutes ; in tli< 
meantime, place in a developing cup about (say for a small plate' 
two dracbms of the stock solution of alum and citric, and place 
in it about four grains of pyro ; when dissolved, add a few dropi 
of about a twenty-grain nitrate of silver solution." 

This solution is to be applied to the plate until suficien 
density be obtained ; when the plate is washed, it is placed ii 
the hypo bath for a few minutes, again washed, and finally 
treated with alum and citric acid solution to clear it. Pla 
thus intensified should not first be dried. 

A very good intensifier for plates developed with potash 
Dr. Eder's sulphate of iron and alum mixture. It should b 
applied immediately after fixing, or better still, before the cream] 
bromide of silver is quite dissolved out of the film. Equal part 
-of ferrous sulphate and alum are used. This intensifier appear 
to act as a stain, but is very useful when only slight strengthen 
ing of the negative is required. 

If a negative appear too dense after mercurial intensification, 
it may easily be reduced to proper intensity by immersing it ii 
a very weak solution of hyposulphite of soda — a 5 per cent 
solution. It is necessary to watch the negative carefully oi 
immersing it in this bath, or it may become too thin. As it 
often difficult to hit the right degree of density with the mercu 
intensifier, the after application of a weak hypo solution 
save a valuable negative from being cast aside as useless. 

10. Too Great Density, — ^This is more frequentiy met witl 
when using the plain pyro developer. Perhaps the simplest 
agent for removing it is Mr. Howard Farmer's ferri-oyamd< 
reducer given above in speaking of green fog. The plate, i 
dry, is soaked in water for a few minutes, then placed in th( 
solution, and examined from time to time until sufficiently thin 
Only a few drops of ferri-cyanide must be added, or the actioz 

11 be too rapid. Then wash well in running water, and dry 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 61 

11. Shrinking of the Gelatine. — ^This may arise from the 
gelatine being too soft, or from heat being employed to hasten 
the drying, which is a great mistake. The shrinking may be 
dight, spoiling the fine microscopic detail, or may amount to 
aotoal distortion of the image. Either way, the negative i& 
mined ; the photo-micrographer is therefore advised to use only 
plates prepared with hard gelatine. Since the use of the alum 
bath has become more general, friUing is not so common aa 
formerly, and the photo-micrographer need hardly be cautioned 
against it. Still, to avoid this, as well as the more serious evil 
ol shrinking of the film, any plates foiind to be prepared with 
soft gelatine should be rejected for microscopic work. 



CHAPTER VIL 



PRINTING. 

The advice given in the introduction is here repeated : let 
photo-micrographer make all his own silver prints, as in no o 
way can he hope for results of a satisfactory nature. The pi 
cess is not difficult, and, when once mastered, the microsci 
will have the pleasure of seeing his pictures real represent 
of the originals, instead of being little else than caricatur* 
which is often the case when the negatives are entrusted 
another to print. A professional photographer may be able 
produce perfect specimens of art from portrait or J 
negatives, yet fail entirely when he tries to print a photo-mic] 
graph, simply from not understanding the nature of the obj< 
represented. 

Beady-sensitized paper may now be procured of great c 
cellence at a moderate price. The photo-micrographer shot 
purchase the best obtainable, for the best costs at first very lit 
more than the worst, and in the end costs really less, as th< 
will be no defective sheets to reject, to say nothing of t 
superior quality of prints to be produced on good paper. 

Some photo-micrographs look very well on $ila\n paper — 
is, on paper not albumeoized. The paper can be pure] 
ready salted at any dealer's, and has merely to be sensitized 
a nitrate of silver bath of suitable strength. Prints on 



HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 63 

l^per look very much like engravings, and are generally more 
admired by artists than prints on the ordinary highly glazed 
paper. However, where there is much delicate detail to be 
shown, there is nothing like a good double-albumenized paper. 
In the winter, when printing is both slow and troublesome, 
the new gelatino-bromide paper of Morgan will be found very 
useful. This paper is very sensitive to light, so it must be cut 
up and placed in the printhig-frames in the dark room. 
Exposures are best effected by lamp-light, and for ordinary thin 
negatives an exposure of a few seconds to lamplight will be 
^te sufficient. Yery dense negatives may require an exposure 
ni one or two minutes. The image is developed by immersing 
fhe paper in a solution of ferrous oxalate. Full directions for 
nsmg this paper accompany each packet. "When the right ex- 
posae for a particular negative has been found, it is possible to 
make a large number of good prints in a very short time. The 
^loloQr of the image is a cold black, but a warmer tone may be 
I^Yen the print by treating it with the ordinary bichloride of 
meroQiy and ammonia intensifier. 

Frequently a photo-micrographic negative may require some 
fittle preparation before it is ready to print. For instance, 
. "diatoins being, as a rule, very transparent objects, require a 
short exposure. This exposure, though sufficient to bring out 
the detail in the diatom, is not long enough to give proper 
Penalty to the background, which should appear white in the 
finished print. In this case the best plan is to '* paint out " the 
background, at the back of the negative, with Bates' or Fallow- 
field's black varnish. It will be easy to follow with the brush 
the regular outlines of the diatom ; but should any varnish 
trespass on the edges, don't wipe it off, but let the whole dry, 
"When dry, hold the negative up to the light, and go round the 
edges of the image with a fine-pointed penknife, cutting away 
in an even manner any varnish that intrudes on the edge of the 
pictnie. The varnish should come exactly up to the edge of the 



64 



HOW TO PHOTOGBAFH 



image; there should be no interreiung space, or failure 
ensae. The negatires treated thus Bhonld always be printe 
the shade — a powerful light wonld produce an objection 
blaek halo ronnd the ol^ect. All objects which have reg 
ontlinea ahould be thns treated, if necessary. 

The Araehnoidincus figored below had an ezpOBnre of fii 
. nunates, with Swift's low-angle onc-fifth-inch, A eye-piece 




Bwnn microacope lamp Thia exposure brDught ont the dii 
Bharply and with dne printing density, bat the background 
Teak, and wonld have printed m with a most objectio 
Idackness had not the plan of painting ont been prac » 
Parts which come out inaafflciently dense, i 



I 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 65 



itrengthened on the film side of the negative with a soft black- 
ifeftd pencil. This is best done after the negative has been. 
Tarnished, using a little turpentine to roughen the part to which 
the pencil is to be applied. 

Local reduction has often to be effected, and can easily be 
doue by using the ferricyanide reducer given above. Wet the 
negative thoroughly ; when the excess of water has drained off, 
dip a fine brush in the solution, and apply to the over-dense 
parts. As each dense place is reduced, dip the negative in water 
to stop the reducing action, and proceed with the next part. 

It will often be found that, no matter what skill may be 

expended on the negative in strengthening weak parts and 

reducing dense ones, it is impossible to get a harmonious prints 

Borne parts will print in strongly long before other parts are 

lone, and no choice seems to be left but to under-print some 

portions, and over-print others. In this case, good prints may 

generally be obtained by the judicious application of cotton-wooL 

When the quick-printiug portions are done, cover them with 

cotton-wool, place the printing-frame in the sun, and print in 

the denser parts as quickly as possible. In the finished print 

there should be no mark left by the wool, but all should appear 

as if printed in at the same time. The writer once photographed 

a section — transverse — of hazel, which was thicker one side than 

'he other. As the negative showed splendid detail, he did not 

to destroy it, but made use of cotton- wool, covering the weak 

1 , corresponding to the thicker side of the section, with 

: m-wool as soon as sufficiently printed, and leaving the dense 

?art, which corresponded to the thinner side, to print further in 

I strong light. In the finished print there was not the slightest 

cation of the unequal density of the negative. 

The two photographs here given, male and female flea, illus- 

wte the case in point. Owing to the unequal contrast in 

y of the body and legs, these negatives are somewhat 

It to print properly. When the body is properly printed, 

I ^ 



68 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 

the legs, being very dense, are not printed in ; and if the print 
be exposed until the legs gain sufficient density, the body is 
quite burnt up. Yet most harmonious prints can be got from 
these negatives by covering up the body with cotton-wool as soon 
as printed sufficiently, and exposing the legs for a longer period. 
In the insects themselves, the legs are very transparent com] 3d 
with the body, which, during life, is of a dark brown-black, 
which becomes a strong amber colour when the i ct 
mounted in balsam, and is thus somewhat difficult fco phot 
properly. If the specimens are intended for photography, 
should be bleached by allowing them to lie in turp* a 
some weeks, until they become of a lighter colour ; but 
short of the chlorate of potash bleaching solution can quite 
rid of the objectionable yellow colour. The specimi 
graphed by the writer were supplied by Mr. Edmund 1/1 
who had a most extensive stock of microscopic , 

from their perfection of finish, were well fitted for the i il 
photo-micrographer. Mr. Wheeler's stock is now h 
Messrs. "Watson, of High Holborn, who would, d H 
able to supply the student with many of the ex< ; p 

tions for which Mr. Wheeler had such a good repntat 



CHAPTER YIII. 

PREPARING OBJECTS FOR PHOTOGRAPHY. 

mioi copic objects are totally unfit for photo-micrography^ 

b* aner will soon discover if he attempt to photograph 

jiately the objects in his collection. It does not follow^ 

in object looks very beautiful under the microscope, that 

L yield even a passable photograph. It may look all that 

)e < sd on the stage of the microscope ; all its different 

1 ' be defined clearly with diffused light ; yet its cdouTy 

ing contrast of one part with another, may be such as 

toj^iu a photograph of it quite impossible. Take, for instance) 

an oljeot mentioned in our first lesson, the tongue, or proboscis 

«f a fly ; satisfactory photographs of this object are not common) 

amply because they have been taken from the specimens usually 

Biet:wi£h in collections, which have been prepared to give the 

best effect when seen through the microscope, where the strong 

«antnst in depth of colour between the lobes of the ligula and 

the thick portion of the maxillae and maxillary palpi lb no defect, 

Imt positively an advantage. When such a specimen is photo- 

giaphed, its unfitness is clearly seen ; the thin, transparent lobes 

ase unially much over-exposed long before the darker parts of 

tiie ligula have received their proper amount of light ; in short, 

no exposure will suit this object as a whole. It is true, a sort of 

makeshift may be employed, and fair results gained, by shading 



70 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

the transparent parts during exposure, keeping the shade in 
gentle motion all the time, during half or three-fourths of the 
exposure, when the whole may be exposed. It is far more satis- 
factory, however, either to select one of these tongues from a 
large number, or prepare one specially, so as to subdue these un- 
desirable contrasts, and bring the whole object more into harmony 
as regards density. 

The beginner in photo-micrography is strongly advised to 
make his own microscopic preparations. A microscope can never 
be much more than a pleasant toy if its possessor rely wholly on 
purchased slides. To own even a moderate collection of slides 
prepared by the professional mounter will cost a large sum of 
moneVy and when these have been examined a few times, their 
interest is gone, and the microscope is laid aside for want of 
objects to examine. But when the student prepares his own 
objects, his microscope becomes to him a continual source of 
pleasure and instruction. His slides, in the majority of cases, 
maiy not be equal to those professionally prepared, and they will 
certainly lack that exquisite Bnish which constant practice in 
their preparation alone can give ; but for the purpose of study, 
and especially for photo-micrography, they may be equal to, or 
eren better than, anything that can be purchased from the 
optician. Then, with practice, the student will so far improve 
that he will find his own preparations so much better for his 
special purpose, that he will rarely visit the optician's shop for 
slides, unless it be to purchase some object that cannot be pro- 
cured elsewhere, or one which may be beyond his own powers 
to prepare. That there are such objects, it cannot be denied ; 
>d -we may perhaps place anatomical preparations in the list of 
lects better left to the experience and skill of the professional 
'Parer. As the student will not require his objects to be 
nted in fancy style, he may prepare slides of such diatoms 
can find in his walks, or obtain by exchange, small as these 
are, purchasing only the rarer forms, or such as are pre- 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 71 

pared especially as test-objects. Practice in preparing and photo- 
graphing minute objects, like diatoms, is not only desirable, but 
necessary, to give the beginner complete command over his 
microscope and camera. 

The apparatus required in the preparation of microscopic 

objects is neither cumbrous nor costly. The following list in- 

dndes most of what the beginner will require : — A spirit lamp ; 

needles mounted in wooden handles ; glass slides, 3 in. by 1 in. 

(these should be of plate-glass with ground edges) ; circles and 

squares of thin cover-glass, the thinner the better ; solution of 

potash, commonly called liquor potassa3 ; methylated spirits ; 

spirits of turpentine ; some pure benzol (not benzoline) ; nitric, 

snlphuric, and hydrochloric acids ; chlorate of potash ; a bottle 

of balsam, or balsam and benzol; glycerine ; gelatine ; fine and 

eoerse emery ; a glass plate (preferably plate-glass) about a foot 

iqaare, and one of cast-iron the same size, for grinding down 

Motions of horn, bone, or rocks ; a pair of scissors ; a sharp 

knife ; a pair of forceps ; and a dozen brass clips for holding the 

Gorers on the slides, will also be required. 

It is best to keep the balsam in a bottle fitted with a wooden 
stopper, through which a glass rod may be passed. The end of 
the rod may be kept above the balsam when not in use. When 
it is required to take some balsam out, the rod can easily be pushed 
down until it just dips below the surface, and a small quantity 
taken out without soiling the neck of the jar. Corks should not 
be nsed, as they are apt to stick fast, and, by crumbling away, 
fill the balsam with small fragments which arc difficult to remove. 
By keeping the glass rod always in the bottle, it will remain 
dean, which would not be the case were it kept elsewhere ; and 
the learner will soon find that cleanliness is absolutely necessary 
in microBCopio work. 

Newly-purchased slides and covers are always dirty. Water 
will not always effectually cleanse them ; they should therefore 
be washed in a solution of caustic potash, ammonia, or soda. 



72 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 

This will free them from impurities ; but the slides should after- 
wards be well rinsed in pure water, or some of the alkali will 
remain on the glass, and prove as great a hindrance as th3 
dirt. 

Microscopic objects are mounted in three different ways: 
1. Dry. 2. In a gum, such as balsam or dammar. 3. In some 
fluid, such as water, glycerine, or alcohol. Dry-mounted objecti, 
l^eing usually opaque, are not well suited for photography, un- 
less the operator has more than common dexterity in the manage- 
ment of reflected light. In the case of very transparent objects, 
however, such as diatoms, dry-mounting is far the best, as the use 
of balsam or glycerine does much to obliterate fine markings, on 
which the interest of the obj ect perhaps entirely depends. Balsam 
or dammar will most generally be used as the mounting medium, 
as these gums render an object mounted in thepi more trans- 
parent, and can be used in most cases where they exejcisi^ no 
solvent action on the preparation. Insect preparations, vegetable 
tissues, rock sections, crystals of various salts, are, as a rule, 
photographed to best advantage when mounted in balsam. 

As insect preparations are of perhaps more general interest 
than any other, and are more easily photographed, we shall 
treat of preparing these objects for photography in our n^xt 
chapter. 



CHAPTER IX. 

PREPARING ENTOMOLOGICAL SLIDES. 

A«LABOK at the catalogues of the professional preparers will 

1^ how popular are in sect preparations. Nor is this surpris- 

The marvellous heauty of form, the gorgeous colours, the 

(rate workmanship displayed in the construction of their 

OUB organs, together with the minute size of many of the 

i ot tribe, all render them fit objects for microscopic study. 

' of their beauties are apparent to the unaided eye, but 

1 the microscope they are increased tenfold ; while others 

done roTcai themselves to the scrutiny of the magic tube. But 

inr it, the delicate mosaic of the butterfly's wing, the mysteries 

of the gem-spangled elytra of the diamond beetle, the myriad- 

fiusetted eye, common to the whole insect world, and all the 

wonders of their internal structure, would remain hidden to us. 

Ab insects vary so much in size, colours, and texture, the 

modes of preparing them for photography must also vary to suit 

tiie subject under treatment. 

1. Opaque Mounting, — This method is alone available in some 
cases, as the application of balsam or any medium would not 
only diminish the beauty of the specimen, but even prove de- 
stractiye in effect. Such objects as scales, such as those of 
batterflies, the Podura and Lepisma, as well as some wings which 
are very transparent, as well as small insects like the Tingis and 



74 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

Thrips, which can be snccessfuUy photographed by reflects 
light, should be monnted dry. In the ca^^e of small flat object 
as scales, no cell will be required ; all that is necessary is to pla 
the scale in position on the slide, and cement a thin cover ov 
it. Larger objects will require a cell, which, for photograph 
had better be of glass. Glass cells are sold at a cheap ral 
look well, and have the advantages of allowing light to 
through their sides, which is often desirable. They can < 
be manufactured at home by any one who has a little skill, 1 
cutting rings from glass tubing with a sharp flat file. Vario 
cements may be used for attaching the cell to the glass sli 
marine glue is the most trustworthy, but is sometimes d i 
to manage, as it requires a strong heat to melt it. Gold 
when good, is equally reliable, but the various cements wl 
have been used of late years for mending broken china and gla 
such as coaguline, appear to be quite satisfactory, and, 1 
colourless, look best when used with glass cells. 

2. Mounting in Balsam. — Whole insects are usually prepa: 
and mounted in the following way : — Having killed the insc 
either by means of the cyanide bottle, or by immersion in spir 
it is set out carefully between two glass slides, which are t 
together and put in a strong solution of potash — caustic pofc 
one ounce, water twenty ounces. Here it must remain for t 
time according to its colour and texture ; but a frequent exai 
nation of the specimen is necessary, as some insects disso 
into a jelly if kept in potash too long. One or two days ib 
suffice for most specimens, but others will take longer. "Wl 
it becomes sufficiently soft, it is taken out of the potash, pla 
in a saucer of pure water, and gently pressed with a soft br 
until the contents of the thorax and abdomen are expelled, 
must then be washed with fresh water until quite clean, wl 
it must again be set out on a slide in the position which it 
finally to occupy, covered with a square of thin glass, and t 
lown with thread. Here the treatment may vary. The ol 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 75 

method was to keep the slide in a warm place, under coyer, 
until the preparation became quite dry, and then immerse it in 
turpentine. 

The objection to this plan was that the insect became full of 

air, which it is almost impossible to expel, unless by the aid of 

m air-pump. The better method is to drain all the water from 

the insect after washing, using blotting-paper if necessary, and 

then immerse it in alcohol and water for about a day, and after 

HbtA in pure methylated spirit to displace all the water. A 

lecond dose of pure spirit may be necessary in some cases. The 

▼hole of the water will thus be removed by the spirit, which 

will also render the preparation so firm that, on the application 

of tlie balsam, it will not alter from the position in which it waa 

set. When quite free from moisture a few days' soaking in 

turpentine will give most specimens the necessary transparency. 

Some insects and parts of insects may, however, require to be 

left in turpentine for several weeks before they are fit to 

monnt. 

The tissues of some dark-coloured insects are best treated 
with some bleaching agent immediately after their removal from 
tiie potash solution ; one of the best is as follows : — 

Hydrochloric acid ... ... 10 or 12 drops 

Chlorate of potash J drachm 

"Water ,.. ... 1 ounce 

This will remove the objectionable strong browns and yellows 
of the chitinous portions, which are so fatal to obtaining a good 
photograph. By examining the object occasionally, the right 
amount of transparency will be gained ; but it is best not to let 
preparations remain too long in the bleaching solution, because 
it too transparent they will be as difficult to photograph as if 
too opaque. The writer recently photographed two splendid 
fty*s tongues, or liguloc, specially prepared by Topping. These 
were selected out of seventy-two similar preparations ; but while 



W. HOW TO PHOTOaBABH 

both were perfection as microBCopic objects, or for ed^bition in 
the lA^tera microscope, only one was fit for photography. The 
other had been bleached too mnch^ and was too thin to give a 
sfkti^&ictory photograph. 

When the necessary transparency has been attained, and after 
the object has been successively treated with alcohol and turpjen* 
iix^t it is ready for mounting. A solution of. balsam in benzol 
is better than pi^re balsam in many ways. The solution may 
b.e prepared by '* baking" pure balsam in a slow oven until it 
becomes quite hard on cooling, and then dissolving in benzol, or 
ija^y be purchased at the shop of any optician. The insedf, or 
part of one, is removed from the turpentine and drained, placed 
ija position on a slide, a cover- glass placed oyer it, and a sDaaU 
qiutntity of the balsam solution applied to the side, when it will 
be drawn under by capillary attraction. By a little core, air- 
bubbles may be entirely avoided. The slide is then put aside 
lyaitil the balsam has become quite hard, when it may be cleaned 
for the cabioet, and ornamented with rings of coloured varnish, 
^i the mounter's taste may dictate. 

0| late years many inicroscopists have objected to the 
'' squashing "iprocess usually employed in mounting insects, as, 
in many cases, it deforms and distorts the preparation almost 
beyond recognition ; and now many amateur and professional 
preparers mount insects without pressure, first gaining the 
necessary transparency by prolonged immersion in turpentine, 
and finally mounting with balsam in a cell. Objects thus 
mounted are very beautiful, especially when illuminated with 
the paraboloid or spot-lens, but are somewhat difficult subjects 
for photography, unless a very low power, such as a five-inch, 
four-inch, or three-inch, be employed, as great penetration is 
required. 

It is best, when engaged in mounting insects specially for 
tography, not to mount indiscriminately any pretty object, 
to set up a type- series, to illustrate the class Inseeta^ which, 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 77 

lien photographed, would have a real scientific value. Some- 
ing after the following style might be attempted : — 

1. CoUoptera. — ^Mauy of the smaller species can be set up 
tele, after bleaching in the chlorate of potash mixture. A 
w feet may also be mounted ; the paddle-foot of DyticuB^ the 
oad-padded foot of TimarchaSy and the type-foot of Cardbus, 
one of the antennae, as those of Melolontha, are also well worth 
(nmting and photographing. 

2. D&rmaptera (the earwigs). — A specimen may be mounted 
liole for a five-inch objective : if possible, with the wings ex- 
nded. This subject will not require more than a few hours 
eatment with potash. 

3. Orthoptera (the cockroach). — Blatta Orientalia is a good 
fpe, although not a true English insect. Almost colourless 
leoimeDS may be found in kitchens which these creatures haunt, 
[lese will require no preliminary bleaching. 

4. Thyaanoptera. — The diminutive insects so abundant and so 
Y>iible8ome in hot summers — insects which will persist in crawl- 
ig over one's face, and into one's mouth and eyes, which swarm 
rerywhere and on everything — constitute this order. One of 
le largest, Phlaeothrips coriacea, measuring about iV of an 
tch in length, may be set up whole in balsam. 

5. Newroptera, — A portion of the large facetted eye of the 
ragon-fly may be mounted flat on a slide in balsam, and will 
Kim a very instructive photograph. 

6. Trichoptera. — The larva of the caddis-fly may easily be 
repared. The internal parts must be removed, when, after 
raahing and treatment with turpentine, it is ready for mount- 
tg. The mature caddis-fly may be set up whole. 

7. JBymenoptera (bees and wasps). — The wings, showing 
Haching booklets, may be mounted dry or in balsam. The feet 
riU require to be bleached strongly, as most of the Hymenoptera 
re strongly coloured. The modified ovipositor, called a sting, 
hould be cut from the insect carefully, so as to have the poison- 



78 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 31ICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 

bag attached. The stings — for there are two— lie enveloped i: 
a case of brown chitine, from which they may be dislodged b; 
a fine needle. The poison-bag, owing to its extreme transpai 
ency, must be stained — not with blue, as in many profession! 
preparations, but with brown. Bismarck brown is, perhaps, i 
good as any. Sufficient stain should be used to give this part i 
nearly as possible the same colour as the stings. 

The saw-flies show another modification of — or, rather, a< 
tion to— the real ovipositor. This consists of a sawing apparatu 
composed of four saws — two small and two large ones, the fonn( 
fitting into the latter. This object is rather difficult to pliot< 
graph when set up in balsam, as it becomes too transparent. • 
well-mounted dry specimen will give more satisfaction. 

8. Lepidoptera (or butterflies) are interesting from their fine! 
marked scales, which form tests for low powers. They shou] 
be mounted dry. 

9. Homoptera (frog-hoppers and aphides). — The former poi 
sess saws, which may be prepared like those of the saw-flies. 

10. Heteroptera (or bugs). — The '* beak " of Cimexlectu 
and the oar- foot of the water-boatman may be mounted i 
balsam. 

11. Jphaniptera (or fleas). — These insects, to be successful 
mounted, require a severe treatment with potash, and a loi 
soaking in turpentine. Preliminary bleaching in the hydi 
chloric acid mixture is, perhaps, best to get rid of the y 
colour, which renders them difficult to photograph satisfactonJ 

12. Liptera (or flies). — The feet of the dark-coloured sp 
will require bleaching with chlorate of potash. The ** tongu 
or Ligul<Bf should also be bleached, but not too much. T 
proper way to mount a fly's tongue is to set it up in a shallc 
cell, without pressure. The specimens usually sold, being mount 
flat, are distorted, and give an improper idea of the real shape 
the organ. 



CHAPTER X. 

PREPARING VEGETABLE TISSUES FOR 

PHOTOGRAPHY. 

SEY-MOUirrED vegetable preparations are not of much use to the 
photo-micrograph er, except it be certain scalus, such as those of 
fhe Deutzia^ which can be successfully photographed with a low 
power by reflected light. In most cases the use of a bleaching 
liquid is necessary to get rid of the colouring matter, which must 
be removed before the tissues can be set up as transparent objects. 
The following bleaching liquids may be used : — 1, Nitric acid; 
2, methylated alcohol ; 3, chlorinated soda. 

1. Nitric acid must generally be used in a very dilute form, as 
nuuiy vegetable tissues, even those strongly impregnated with 
mlica, are destroyed by it when pure. The stems of grasses, 
boroetails, and even leaves, as those of the Beutzia, may be 
bleached by gently heating in very dilute nitric acid. When 
the object appears sufficiently transparent, it must be well 
iraahed in distilled water to remove all trace of the acid, floated 
-on a slide, and dried under cover. If the acid be used too strong, 

the object is decomposed ; while if the washing be imperfect, 
•etyBtala will form in its substance, and render it useless. 

2. Soaking in alcohol does very well for many objects, such 
-as oatides, and thin, semi-transparent leaves. They should be 
left in alcohol for some hours ; and when they have lost most of 



80 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

their chlorophyll the alcohol must be poured off, and some fresh 
added, until the objects become white. They may now be trans- 
ferred to benzol or turpentine for some hours, when they are 
ready for mounting. Boiling in alcohol is hardly advisable, for 
although it considerably hastens the bleaching, it tends to make 
all plant-tissues too brittle for mounting. 

3. The best method of bleaching vegetable tissues is by means 
of chlorinated soda. The solution is prepared as follows : — Three 
or four ounces of good chloride of lime are taken, and put in 
about a quart of water. Stir the mixture a few times, and 
allow the sediment to settle ; after this the liquid had better be 
filtered through coarse filter-paper ; this is better than pouring 
the clear liquid off. Next, pour a strong solution of carbonate 
of soda into the chloride of lime solution, so long as a precipi- 
tate takes place, and allow the precipitate to subside. When 
clear, the solution should be tested with a few more drops of 
carbonate of soda, to ascertain if all the lime have been precipi- 
tated ; if not, more should be added, until no lime be left in the 
solution. Most of the solution, when clear, can be poured off, 
and must once more be filtered ; after which it should be stored 
in black or dark -coloured bottles, and well-corked, since both 
air and light speedily bring about decomposition. 

A series of small glass pots should be provided to bleach the 
specimens. Shallow pomade pots are very suitable. Before 
the leaves are immersed in the fluid, it is best to wash them in 
clean water with a soft brush, since all leaves are more or less 
covered with fine dust, which will sink into their substance if 
not removed when they are fresh. When they are quite clean, 
they may either be put in the bleaching liquid at once, or put 
between clean blotting-paper to dry. Dried leaves, as a rule, 
bleach more rapidly than green ones. 

When a leaf happens to be more deeply coloured than usual, 
it is a good plan to immerse it in alcohol until most of the colour 
has been removed. This much facilitates the bleaching process. 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 81 

e time wMch tissues require to be soaked varies considerably, 
become translucent in a few hours, while others take many 
'B ; others will show green patches which obstinately refuse 
« bleached. In this case, remove the leaf, wash it well, and 
30 it in alcohol for some hours. In this way all the chloro- 
11 will be dissolved out, when the soda solution wiU complete 

process. Care must be taken not to put too many leaves 
. time into one vessel ; three or four is the average number. 
nien properly translucent, the leaves or tissues must be 
oved from the soda solution, and washed in distilled water, 
aging the water every few hours. If the tissues do not 
tain Eaphides, the addition of a little hydrochloric or nitric 
. to ther second or third washing will increase their trans* 
sy. Sulphuric acid must not be used, or crystals of sui- 
te of lime, which is only slightly soluble in water and acids, 
'' be formed in the tissues, and cannot be removed, 
.bout twenty-four hours is necessary to properly wash the 
Bs ; less time is not sufficient, and a longer immersion tends 
lisintegrate delicate tissues. The washing completed, they" 

i be placed in alcohol, in which they must remain for some 
rs, and afterwards be transferred to turpentine, until required 
noonting. 

he above bleaching process must be applied to sections of 
d which are too strongly coloured for photography. It is 
Uy necessary to observe that all sections which are to be 
^graphed should be of extreme thinness. Many which 
rer very weU for examination under the microscope are far 
ihick for the photo-micrographer. Light-coloured sections, 
. as those of white pine, require merely saturation with 

L before mounting in the balsam solution. A section of 
, to show the characteristic " discs," should be mounted dry. 
)iral vessels, scalariform tissue, &c., will require but little 
anent ; the former, after drying and washing in alcohol and 

1, may at once be set up in balsam. 



82 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH MIOROSOOPIO OBJECTS. 

Cuticles may be prepared in the same way. In the cas 
very transparent tissues, staining will be of great use. Juds 
dyes answer very well for this purpose, but all blue st 
should be avoided in objects intended for photo-micrography 

Plant-crystals, or raphides, may be prepared either in siti 
separately. When mounted in situ, bleaching with alcoh( 
alone admissible. Eaphides may be obtained from most ] 
by Ibying a leaf or stem on a slide, with the cut end about 
middle ; a gentle rolling pressure with a pencil will squeeze 
juice and raphides out on the glass. Wash with alcohol, ] 
over a little turpentine, and mount in the usual way. 

The foUowiag furnish good examples of raphides. Di 
weed, the onion, the willow-herb, the galium, or goose-g 
The large prismatic crystals of the onion or garlic poL 
splendidly, and show better in a photograph when polarised! 
is used. In fact, many objects that are far too transparei 
make good photographs, can be easily managed by putting 
the polariscope. When this is of no use, a piece ef fine gr( 
glass, or oiled paper, immediately below the slide, will b 
great service in softening the light. This will prolong 
exposure, but give results that could not otherwise be attai 

Por instruction as to staining vegetable tissues, the stude 
referred to a very valuable and practical paper by Dr. Ge 
D. Beatty, which appeared in " Science Gossip " for May, U 
also to •* Practical Microscopy," Chapter XII. 



CHAPTER XL 



PRSPARING SECTIONS OF HARD SUBSTANCES 

FOR PHOTOGRAPHY. 



of the sections of hard suhstances, such as hone, rock, ftc., 
-flold in the shops, are too thick. Those prepared by the best 
lapidaries cannot be excelled ; and if the stndent can afford to 
pay the high price charged for making these sections — ^from 2s. 
to 2s. 6d. each — ^he is advised not to undertake the labour and 
troaUe of preparing them himself ; for, although the manipu- 
lator may be skilful and patient, even when a machine is usisd, 
-eotting sections of rocks is both tedious and laborious. 

There are many excellent machines in the market specially 
-derisedfor cutting sections ; but they are all more or less expensiye, 
and good work may be done by using very simple appliances, 
which we shall now proceed to mention. In the first place, pro- 
coze an iron plate, preferably cast iron, aboat twelve inches 
aquare, and as thick as can be obtained. !N'ext, a Water-of-Ayr 
stone, and one of harder texture, such as Washita stone. These 
may be obtained at any tool-shop. A Turkey stone is very good 
for sections of bone. Por grinding down rocks, emery of various 
degrees of fineness will be required — ^buy one pound of medium ' 
•coarse, one pound of medium fine, and one pound of flour emery. 

To grind down a rock section, proceed as foUows. Make a chip 
with a hammer, about one inch square, and not more than one- 



84 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

eighth inch thick. Sedimentary rocks, such as limestones, may 
be thicker. Kub down the chip with coarse emery and water on 
the iron plate, until one side is perfectly flat. Remove the 
scratches by next rubbing the chip on apiece of plate-glass with 
fine emery, and then polish with water on the "Water-of-Ayr 
stone ; when quite smooth, wash it well, and let it dry. Mean- 
time put some old, hard balsam on a glass slip, and warm it over 
a lamp until eJI the more volatile parts of the balsam evaporate, 
80 that, on cooling, it becomes hard and tough. Don't boil the 
balsam, and don't continue the heat too long. When the balsam 
is properly hard, heat the chip on a metal plate, rub over it a 
little turpentine, and riD-melt the balsam ; lower one end of 
chip slowly into the balsam, and press it down close to the g 
slip. When the balsam is cold, rub down the chip on the i 
plate with coarse emery until too thin to bear further fri 
Very hard rocks may be brought down to the requisite thin 
on the iron plate alone, and will only require a little polishing 
a stone to remove the deeper scratches. Sections intended 
photography should be cut down to the extreme of thinn< a 
all sections should be cut thin enough to read through w 
placed on the page of a book. When the section beco s 
thin to bear any longer the friction of the coarse emery, v 
well, and grind it thinner on the glass plate with fine ay, 
and finish* off on the Water-of-Ayr stone. If the section i» 
strong -enough to bear it, it should be removed from the slip on 
which it has been ground, and mounted on a clean slip. Warm 
the slide over the lamp sufficiently to melt the balsam, and push 
the section off with a needle into a cup of turpentine, and wash • 
it carefully with a small soft brush. Kow pour a little balsam 
and benzol on the clean slip, put the section upon it, add a little 
more balsam, and cover with a circle or square of thin glass. 

Sections of bone or horn must be first cut with a fine saw, 
and ground down in the same way, only no emery most be used, 
and the iron plate will not be required, as the Water-df-Ayr 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 85 

lita stones will prove sufficient. Before such sectiohs 
ted, they should be soaked for a day or two in balsam 
)1 to render them perfectly transparent. 

of soft rocks, and sedimentary rocks generally, are 
and mounted in the same way, only no emery must 
)r it will imbed itself in the section and cause false 
jes under the microscope. Most sedimentary rocks 
nished on the "Water-of-Ayr stone. Some very friable 
substances such as boiler incrustations, which readily 
ite on the grinding-stone, must . first undergo a pre- 
hardening. Two hardening solutions are generally 
) of — balsam and benzol, or a solution of shellac in 
The latter is much the better of the two. The solu- 
Id be quite limpid. For soft limestones, a soaking 
' three days will be sufficient, but a piece of boiler 
on will require to be left in the solution for at least 
lit. When the rock is thoroughly impregnated with 
mug solution, take it out, and put it to dry in a 
Ace until the solvent has evaporated, leaving the 
shellac in the pores quite hard, 
s of rocks which contain organisms — such as forami- 
lould not be ground very thin, or most of the fossils 
pround away, leaving the section quite useless as a 

lin rock sections photograph better by piolarised light, 
ucture is thus much better shown. Sedimentary rocks, 
jQ limestones, stop a great deal of light, and will re- 
ng exposure. Such sections are always much improved 
days' soaking in balsam and benzol, to render them 
sparent.* 

ittell, of Soho Square, is most expert in preparing thin sections 
ks. A large assortment of rock sections, ready cut, may be seen 
sell's, 78, Newgate Street. 



CHAPTER XII. 



PREPARING CRYSTALLIZATIONS FOR PHOTO- 
MICROGRAPHY. 

Most chemical crystals are mounted in balsam, as tl 
usually viewed by polarised light ; but where this 
cable, or when the crystals are soluble in balsam, this u 
must not be employed, and the crystals must be simply evi 
ated from an aqueous or alcoholic solution on a dean { 
and covered with a circle of thin glass. The majority 
chemical salts are soluble in Vater, and when typical crysti 
are not required, the addition of a little gelatine to the wal 
wQl usually produce larger, and in some cases more beautifi 
forms. However, as the genuine typical forms will be ] 

required in a photograph, it is best to use nothing but a Ll 
water, or pure alcohol, in making up the solutions. To o1 
typical crystals, the solutions should not be oonc 
normal, and the evaporation of the salt should not be accel< 
by too much heat. As a general rule, the most perfectly f ormi 
crystals are obtained by very slow evaporation in a cool p 
Many salts, if evaporated in a hot room, or over a lamp, gi' 
notUng but a confused mass of amorphous forms. It is 
better, instead o( applying heat to a drop of the \ on 
glass slide, to make a hot solution in a test-tn i 
a few dtops slowly on the glass slip. Ai ; ^ i 



HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 87 

matter how beautiful in themselves, are a great nuisance when 
tke student wishes to prepare the typical forms for photography, 
and they may be avoided by allowing the solution to crystallize 
out slowly. Potassium bichromate, if crystallized rapidly, 
eitiier over the lamp, or from a hot solution, usually gives arbo- 
lesoent forms ; but when evaporated in the cold, the character- 










O A ^ 



6 



ff2 d 






s 



* o » ■* 



CBYSTALS OF ABBENIC, FROM A DEPOSIT OF '002 GRAIN. 

istic prismatic crystals are obtained. AR salts crystallized'from 
an alcoholic solution should, as a general rule, be evaporated in 
the cold. As an example of this, magnesium platino-cyanide, 



88 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

when evaporated from an alcoholic solution rapidly, gives only 
an amorphous red mass. To obtain the prismatic crystals 
arranged in rosettes, the solution must be evaporated slowly in 
a cool room free jfrom draughts. 

"White arsenic, AsjOg, may be obtained either from its aque- 
ous solution, or by sublimation. The latter mode gives more 
brilliant and regular crystals, but is more troublesome. A small 

^ C7 . * 









♦ i> 






» ^ 




^ 


^ 9 


« 




i» 






^ ^ 






B * * i? a 


01 




o «. 




* •t 




d 


*°% ? 






^ 


^ 







CBY8TAL8 OF ARSENIC, FROM A DBP06IT OF 'GDI GRAINS. 

portion of arsenic should be put in a short test-tube about one 
inch long, and a glass slide laid over the top. On applying 
heat; the crystals will form on the sides of the tube, and on the 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 89 

tide. By a little careful manipulation with the spirit lamp, 
lie bulk of the crystals may be driven from the sides of the tube, 
ad made to crystallize on the glass slip. They should be 
overed. with a' circle of thin glass — no balsam must be used, or 
hey become too transparent to photograph. The accompanying 
ats, photographed from slides of '001 grain, and *002 grain of 
raenicy show the general form of the crystals. 

Strychnine is very insoluble in water, so it should be crys- 
allised from its dilute alcoholic solution. The form of the 
ryatals is the octahedron, or square prism — usually the latter. 
Lb it dissolves in balsam, it should be mounted dry. With 
, solution of picric acid strychnine yields hook-like crystals, 
rbich may easily be photographed with a low power. • 

Bracia must be crystallised from alcohol. The crystals are 
Miqae rhombic prisms. It dissolves in balsam rather rapidly, 
ID should be either set up dry, or in castor oil. 

Atropine, caffeine, and narcotine crystallize in needles. The 
bmier must be mounted dry. Morphia, and morphia chloride, 
nlphate, and acetate may be crystallized either from water or 
abohol, and mounted in balsam. 

Quinine sulphate gives a profusion of silky needles from 
a dilute alcoholic solution. Owing to their delicacy they are 
difficult to preserve, but may be mounted in dilute balsam and 
lencole. 

Sulphur must be dissolved in carbon bisulphide. The best 
fqrstals are obtained in winter ; but at all times of the year the 
tofaition must be evaporated in a room quite free from draughts, 
ad as cool as possible. These crystals must be photographed 
\j reflected light with a low power. Salicin is a very favourite 
ideroBCOpic object ; but the splendid discs usually seen on slides 
are only modifications of the typical acicular crystals. The real 
tens axe best obtained from a dilute aqueous solution, which may 
te hot. If a little gelatine be added to the solution, delicate 
form on crystallization, which arc seen to consist of^needles, 



90 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH MIOROSOOPIO OBJECTS. 

radiating from a common centre. Fusion of the dry salt gives 
only coarse discs, but if a concentrated aqueous solution be made 
and evaporated over a lamp until fusion just commences, very 
delicate discs of a larger size may be obtained. One method of 
obtaining fine discs is to put a solution of salicin in gelatine on 
a glass slip. Warm the slip over the lamp for a few moments, 
and then pour the solution off; enough will be left on the slide 
to form a thin film. The film is then pricked in several places 
with a fine needle, and immediately crystallization commences 
from each prick as a centre, and goes on all over the slide. The 
whole is at once covered with balsam and benzol, and a thin 
^lass square gently pressed on. .If not covered at once, the 
crystals become opaque. 

Santonin and phloridzin are crystallized from an alcoholic 
solution, and may be preserved in balsam. 



CHiPTES XIIL 

BACTERIA, AND THE MODE OF PHOTOGRAPHING 

. THEM. 

It is intended to devote this chapter to a brief notice of the 
miimte organisms, called by the generic name of Eacteria, micro- 
oiganisms or microbes, and the mode of photographing them. 
Before enteringupon the details of this more difficultpart of photo- 
ndoiography, it is premised that a few general remarks upon the 
olasflification and nature of these minute beings may not be with- 
out interest to the reader. They are made to take their place at 
the Sanitary Board, and are largely questioned about sanitary con- 
ditionSy in which they present themselves under a very suspicious 
aspect. They have to tell something about the cattle plague, the 
louget of pigs, glanders, the fowl cholera, phthisis or tubercular 
oonsmnption, relapsing fever with its spirillum, quarter evil, 
efysipelas, scarlet fever, whooping cough, measles, diphtheria, 
typhoid, pneumonia, leprosy, and various other afflictions flesh 
is heir to ; and now they are stated by some to have a word to say 
<m cholera. The cattle plague, or splenic fever, has been largely 
inrestigated by many ; and the anthrax haeillm is accused, without 
hesitation, of causing this very fatal disease in cattle, and the 
" wool-sorter's disease " in man. Powl cholera has been closely 
studied bj M. Pasteur, who supposes it to be caused by a minute 
microbe ; whilst the haeillm of phthisis is amongst the valuable 
discoveries of Dr. E. Koch, who lately^ after serious investiga- 
tioDLy also brings forward a ^* comma-shaped " or curved haeillm as 
the cause of the scourge of cholera, by some believed to be a 
spirillam. The researQhes of Dr. Koch, now at the head of the 
Impeiial Sanitary Eoard of Eerlin, command respect, and in tiie 



92 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

case of consumption have been by others repeatedly verified ; 
yet the *' comma-shaped " bacillus of cholera has not been sup- 
ported by evidence considered absolutely necessary to establish 
its claim as the cause of cholera. Investigations are still being 
pursued by others, and no doubt will, ere long, be either con- 
firmatory or negative ; until then it is as well to bear in mind 
Dr. Koch's views, with the fact that a peculiar shaped bacillus 
has been found in the rice water excreta and in the intestines 
in cholera, though not in the blood, and that it is generally most 
abundant in the most serious cases. 

These minute organisms are not originators or associates of 
the diseased conditions of man and animals only, but bacteria are 
also found in the fatal diseases of some insects, which contribute 
largely to the comforts of man, as, for example, in ^^ pehrine " 
and ^^fiacherie " of the silkworm (bombyx mori), which have been 
-carefully studied by M. Pasteur, and others, and the "foul 
brood " of bees which has been investigated by Mr. Cheshire 
and Mr. W. Cheyne.* 

The micro-organisms are distributed in the air, in. the earth, 

and in water, and the great difficulty is to find where they are 

not. In the former they diminish in number according to the 

purity and the height of the atmosphere from inhabited places, 

and in some very careful and late experiments conducted by 

M. Ed. de Freudenreich they were found to be very rare in high 

altitudes ; 2,700 litres of air drawn through or into sterilised tubes 

in various quantities at heights ranging from 2,000 to 4,000 

metres on the Bernese Alps, furnished no bacteria, and later 

experiments have borne out the extreme purity of mountain air 

away from habitations; the same experimenter found abundance 

'crobes in the air of the city of Berne. They are being sought 

-.t sea by M. le Commandant Moreau in his voyages across the 

or, and at certain distances from the coastline, and though 

rare, show their presence every wherej whilst attheObserva- 

* Jmm, Sat/. Mie, Society ^ April, 1885, p. 883. 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 93 

tory of Montsouris, Paris, they are regularly collected by the use 
of appropriate apparatus, and statistically noted in special tables 
by tliat excellent observer, Dr. P. Miquel, the author of the 
unique book, ** Les Organismes Yivants de FAtmosphere," 
published by Gauthier-Villars, Paris, who there gives, as also in 
the ** Annuaire " of the Observatory, the results of his observa- 
tiLons on the air of the wards of hospitals, of streets, of the larga 
Parisian Cemetery, of sewers, of the dust of apartments, of 
earth, &c. ; all the results are tabulated and reduced to curves, 
or stated statistically, or comparatively, with the known meteoro- 
logical conditions as regards moisture, temperature, barometric 
preasnre, force and direction of wind, and rainfall. The latter 
oanreSy and those of epidemics, are often seen to corres- 
pond very closely with the« fall and rise in the curve 
of the microbes. Curiously, he has also detected a 
daily maximum and minimum in their numbers, the cause of 
which remains to be investigated.* They are found in ice, in 
Imly in snow, and in rain, as may be expected. They effect 
decomposition by putrefactive fermentation. They act as the 
flcayengers to the refuse of all higher organisms, and at last 
determine the ultimate changes of death. They inherit energies 
of enormous power, so that in whatever light we may view them^ 
they are entitled to ,the study and attention of the photo- 
HQorographer. Thus, they forpe themselves upon our notice in 
▼arioas zymotic diseases ; they are the companions, if not the 
eaiueSy of many of the diseases common to man and animals; and 
ttiey break down the structure of the finished life for the re« 
building of new forms. Decay marks their path, whilst their 
own life history is in many cases a mystery. 

From the foregoing it will be seen that some at least are 
pathogenic, or breeders of disease ; others appear harmless in 

* Two max. and two min. in the twentj-four hoars. A rise between 
and 8 a.m., and 6 and 9 p.m. ; a faU between noon and 2 p.m., and mid* 
i4|^ and a a.m. 



^4 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

i;liis relation, and are described as non-pathogenic. He 
may, under alterable conditions, be convertible, if a 
' iaransmission through the bodies of various animals ; < 
in all cases they retain their respective and distinctive. < 
never passing from the one to the other in their pure 
mains for continued investigation as a question of dee 
That they can be altered, or the virulence lessened, 
largely proved by inoculation experiments carri 
Prance and elsewhere, so that when inoculated ini 
they act less virulently, yet render the inoculate 
immune to the strongest similar virus. It is here 
have a very large commercial bearing upon the ratio of 
tion and supply, as affecting the lives and preservation 
. necessary for the use of man. Many of these organisms 
long known, and were sometimes placed with the anii 
times with the vegetable kingdom. They are now coi 
belonging to the latter, and to stand at the lowest c 
life. The vastly superior methods of discovering 
tinguishing them, due to the greatly improved definii 
of the microscope, and the distinctive characters 
by various methods of staining, have made their class 1 

They have been classified in different ways, artific 
provisionally, by different investigators. For the pre 
pose, and as the most simple, they may be stated as be 
the Schizomycetes, or fission fungi, fission being thei 
mode of increase, though some are known to form spoi 
usually resist such influences as speedily destroy lif< 
ordinary condition. This is not the place to go very i 
•detail respecting them ; hence for the present purpose 
be divided into four heads : 

1. Mtcroeoeeus {Sphcsrohaeteria), — The micrococci a 
round or oval bodies varjring from less than about the 
an inch to double this size, or more, remaining alwa 
scopic. They elongate slightly, then divide into two a 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 95 

ihe same fission ; or the two may remain in contact and resemble 
domb-bells, or the division be repeated at each end, forming a 
shorter or longer chain. If the division also occurs in another 
dixeotiony they tal^e the form of a square, or a cubic form. Many 
mgmr under the microscope surrounded by a pale substance 
cl a different refractive power, sometimes soluble in acid or 
ki alkalies, and containing one or more in the same aroeola. The 
aoifphological appearances of many closely resemble each other, 
M that they cannot microscopically be distinguished, whilst by 
cnltnre in fluids or on solids they determine very different effects, 
duywing them to have dissimilar functions. They are said not to 
possess motion, save it be of the ordinary Erownian character. 
Hub is rather doubtful with some. They can determine colour 
k some fluids ; the red colour by micrococcus prodigiosus, a 
NBtlet by micrococcus indicus, &c. ;. also orange ' and violet 
sokurs. Some are found in milk, but are apparent^ harmless.' 
Oihers are found in the acute stage of pneumonia, and these, when 
itained, show a beautiful aroeola. Others are found in erysipelas 
and in small-pox, &c.; they are occasionally found in the 
andna form, or squares of four. 

2. JBaeterium (Mtcrohacteria). — The bacteria proper differ from 
tiiB foregoing, though they sometimes so closely resemble those 
in- pairs, that it is almost impossible to correctly distinguish 
them. They consist of elongated and oval, or cylindrical short 
rods that divide by constriction and fission, and generally remain 
in pairs ; most of them are endowed with motion ; some move 
with great rapidity, and possess a flagellum, lash, or cilium. 
at one or both ends; possibly all the motile forms possess 
them. The ends are generally rather sharply rounded. 
Some are very minute, and are endowed with powerful patho- 
genic properties in the smallest quantities, others in fairly large 
quantities, or not at all. They are readily found in decomposing 
^mifwftl or vegetable infusions, giving the odour of putridity and 
ataleness, also determining colour in some cases. They may 



96 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

change the material in which they originate, or live, and render 
it virulent apart from themselves. They mostly prefer neutral 
or slightly alkaline media, though some multiply rapidly in acid 
liquids, as in acetous fermentation ; others will multiply readily 
in a purely mineral or inorganic saline medium, ^^Cohn's fluid. 
They sometimes form long chains, often in zoogloea masses on the 
surface of the fluid ; some are photometric. The rapidity of their 
growth in suitahle media and temperature is simply marvellous, 
and this to such an extent that they often supplant, to total ex- 
clusion, other forms. The common form is that of bacterium 
termo less than l/i micromilletre, or ^-5-0 6-0 of an inch, in length. 
Some stain more readily than others. 

3. Baeilhs {Desfnohaeterta), — The bacilli are also small, niuroir 
rod-like bodies, that always divide across the short diameter, or 
contrary to the line of growth. They are of very variable sizes, 
from the minute form less than l/t in length, found in the 
septicoemia of mice, to that of bacillus ulna, 0*01 mm. Some 
are with difficulty distinguishable from bacteria. They are of 
very variable length ; some divide and separate very rapidly, or 
form long narrow threads, simple, or intertwining like a mass of 
hair, according to the medium, temperature, or mode of cul- 
ture, &c., eventually becoming partitioned into portions of diffe- 
rent lengths, and in these the plasm may become so differentiated 
as to form one spore in the short, and more than one in the 
longer rods, if the conditions be favourable for spore formation ; 
the wall of the rod playing the part of a sheath, eventually 
.breaking down and liberating the spore. The spores are mostly 
round or oval, bright, refringent bodies, possessing great tenacity 
of life, or resistance to agents readily destructive to the rods, 
supporting a temperature far above the boiling point of water, 
and much below that of zero. Some are motile, but all are sup* 
posed to possessaperiod of rest. One of thelargestandmosttypical 
is the non-motile bacillus of anthrax, splenic fever in cattle, and 
*' woolsorters' disease " in man. The rods are always present in 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 97 

le blood in such cases, and in many of tlie organs, especially the 

leen. Its spores have not been found in the living animal, but 

e rapid growth of the rod suffices to destroy life very speedily. 

he bacillus of hay is easily obtained by steeping a little hay in 

sshljxboiled distilled water, a scum forming readily on the 

xface at suitable temperatures. The rods are motile, and 

Kiely resemble the anthrax bacillus, but are smaller. The spores 

6 often seen at the end of the rod, or in its middle. This is 

QOcaousas far as experiments have gone, although it has been 

serted that it can be made to'pass into the anthrax variety, and 

s» versa. This statement needs further proof, for the difficulties 

afe surround such evidence are almost beyond the control of the 

(Mt able and cautious experimenter. Some bacilli are the 

rment of the brewer if found amongst the sowing yeast; 

my are often found in the sediment of bottled beer, to which 

irerage they communicate an unpleasant taste and odour. 

he badllus of anthrax has been attenuated in various ways, 

as to give to the inoculated animal a mild form of disease, 

. Tender it safe against the most virulent virus. The 

rolence of the bacillus found in the "rouget" of pigs is 

mated by passing it through the body of the rabbit, but 

nted if passed through the body of the pigeon. That of 

prax has been found in cultures of the milk of lactation in 

1b dead of charbon, and capable of infecting similar animals. 

Yaiions forms are found in the earth, and Dr.Miquel estimates 

OyOOO organisms as existing in one gramme at the depth of 

SO ol a metre from the surface in the soil at Montsouris. 

The bacillus of turbercle is in little chain rods, straight, curved, 

angular. They are found easily in the sputum of phthisical 

I by compressing a small quantity of the greyish nodular 

im, between two thin clean cover-glasses, to a thin even 

er, then separating the glasses by sliding them one from the 

f and drying them ; then holding the cover at the edge by 

ree it is passed through the flame of a spirit lamp three or 

H 



98 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

four times, and afterwards stained according to the plan devise 
by dijfferent pathologists, as stated in the various text-books, 
Erhlich's, "Weigert's, or Gibbes' plan being very effectual, and b; 
which these bacilli only retain the stain ; they can then be easil; 
seen by a ith. They have been very largely experimented wit] 
upon animals to the entire confirmation of Dr. Koch's statement 
both in this country, and by Dr. G. M. Sternberg, in America. 

4. Spirillum fSpirohacteriaJ, — The spirilla are short or Ion; 
curved rods, taking the simple form of the letter S, as that c 
the so-called Yibrio, or that of a corkscrew with very man; 
turns ; in one instance, thirty-eight were counted to one rod 
The turns may be more or less sharp and abrupt, as i 
Spirillum undula, or more open and flowing, as in S. volutane 
Some are amongst the largest of the bacteria, and are provide( 
with a cilium at each end. Some progress in a wandering way 
others by a rapid rolling motion. Some are rigid, and otl 
flexible, as Spirochoeta. Different names have been gii i tl 
according to the greater or less possession of the above el era 

as Vibrio, Spirochoeta, Lepothrix, the latter being found wit) 
very many other bacteria in the collection of tartar about thi 
back teeth. The " comma " shaped bacillus found in the rice 
water evacuations, also in the cavity of the intestines of eh i 
patients, in some cultivations outside the body, occasionally tal 
a more or less perfect screw shape, and is by some coi c 

to belong to Spirillum. It is stated to be present in 
mouths of healthy individuals by Dr. Timothy Lewis. Bad 
of various forms are said to have been found on metal and 
money in circulation, also on the hfbnan skin. 

Passing, for a moment, to other minute organ 
often found with the bacteria, may be mentioned t 
romycetes, the yeast fungi, cultivated for brewing, \ 
ptirposes, and the natural yeast ferments, found plentifully 
IJie qi^ms and outside of fruits. They occur as delicate oella 

* " Microtomists* Vade Mecim)," by A. B. Lee. 8vo, 188ff| Lonckm. 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 99 

a watery interior and minute granules. They grow by 

bnddingy the buds forming a single chain, or an irregular star 

shape. Of the Zygomycetes, the mucors are in abundance 

in. the air and other situations; some are capable of acting 

•a ferments; they possess a more perfect structure than 

fhe foregoing, and a different mode of growth, though, singly, 

fhey may have a close resemblance to some of the cellular forms. 

Among the Hyphomycetes the penicillia take their place ; these 

abound everywhere, and when forming their conidia are 

most beautiful microscopic objects. They are a class of 

oommon moulds, among which is the green mould of cheese, 

AjBpergiUus glaucus, &c., so the student must be prepared 

to meet with numerous small organisms that pass under the 

ffwnmmi names of rust, smut, mildew, a class of parasitic 

fanfp, on animals and plants, often inducing the death of the 

host. Amongst these is abundant material for study and 

educational purposes if reproduced photographically. 

Staining Agents, and Mode of Staining. — To return to 
bacteria, these minute microbes require some means 
be used for rendering their presence more visible 
1 the microscope than when seen in their natural state, and 

to d aguish them from minute inorganic particles or amongst 
ed or healthy tissues ; hence some process of staining is 
] ally adopted, and by preference the various aniline dyes 
I employed. To the pathologist and histologist the blue 
3 are most valuable, as easily differentiating these organ- 
. They easily take the stain of methyl violet, gentian violet, 
;hyl blue, aniline brown, chrysoidin, magenta, rose- 
iniline, &c. ; also of osmic acid, iodine in iodide of potassium, 
or tineture of iodine, and sundry other stains. Unfortunately, 
it so happens that those most generally useful to the pathologist 
lie those most un£t for photography. The various blues and 
violets allow the actinic rays to pass readily, consequently the 
gative does not present the contrast required, and the objects 



100 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

do not appear well defined, being more or less of the same tint 
as the field, and they do not yield such satisfactory prints a& 
when stained by suitable dyes. Lately, however, it has been 
stated by M. Dufrenne that he has found no difficulty in photo- 
graphing objects stained with fuschin or magenta, when he used 
a green glass, of a complementary colour, between the back of 
the objective and the sensitized plate. Although the 
materials are at hand, time has not allowed of testing the value 
of this proceeding. It may be mentioned that coloured media, 
as glass, gelatine films, coloured varnishes, have been used 
years since for improving the ocular image, and, in some cases, 
photographically. It is not enough to obtain a single black 
image of the object ; what is needed is to try and secure some of 
the very delicate details many of the organisms possess, as 
rotundity, granularity, cell wall ; and it must be remembered 
the appearance of the object is greatly altered when foe d 
or into many of these microbes, in the former case app 
as bright, beautifully refracting bodies, and in the lat 
grey and less refringent. In the yeast cell, at its early ] 
vigorous stage, the transparency and tenuity of the cell, wi 
its watery plasm, is very marked; but by age the cell wall 
becomes thickened and dense, the plasm coarsely granular, 
and the vacuoles appear larger or more numerous. These 
and such-like organisms, as mucor, penicillium, aspergillus, 
do not require to be stained unless for special purposes, 
and they can be mounted in distilled water, in weak or 
saturated solution of potassic acetate, or glycerine and water, 
only it must be borne in mind that injurious osmosis is likely 
to occur when the density of the liquid is too great, or has any 
special action on the contents of the cell. 

It would be quite out of place here to record all the methods 
of staining ; one plan will be mentioned, which will serve as a 
guide. A strong solution of roseaniline acetate, or Bismarck 
brown of the best quality, preferably of Oerman make, being 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 101 

prepared with distilled water, boiled and filtered, a small 
qaaatity of the fluid medium containing the bacteria is taken 
up by a fine glass rod, or platinum wire bent into a small ring^ 
and placed on a clean thin cover glass, and made to occupy the 
ipreater part of its surface. The cover is taken up by forceps, 
and Bet resting with its lower edge on clean blotting-paper, or a 
pointed strip of the same is made to drain away the surplus, if 
any. When dry, the cover is, sometimes, also passed rapidly 
through the flame of a spirit lamp to further flx the orgcmisms 
to the surface, to be ready for staining when cold, which may 
he done by dropping the cover, face down, on a little of the stain 
filtered into a watch glass, and aUowing it to float on its sur- 
faee, or by dropping upon the cover itself suflS.cient of the stain 
to completely cover the objects, and covering the same with a 
large watch glass to protect from dust. If the former plan be 
uaed, the stain, when finished with, may be generally discarded 
as contaminated ; the time allowed for the stain to act may vary 
irom a few minutes to one or several hours. In cither case 
the stain is washed oS. with distilled water from the wash 
bottle, or the cover is placed in successive small saucers of 
distilled water, to get rid of the superfluous stain. Some- 
times it is flooded with half per cent, to one per cent, of 
acetic acid, and washed with distilled water ; sometimes with 
absolute alcohol if over-stained ; it is then dried by resting on 
Uotting-paper as before. After becoming dry, it is well to ex- 
amine the objects by placing the cover on a slide, film upwards, 
and looking at it through the microscope before cementing it to 
file slide, or mounting it in Canada balsam or any suitable fluid 
medium. It will often be found the organisms are lying much 
too closely together, or that some soluble substance that was 
-contained in the original fluid, and has been dried on the cover, 
has been partially stained, or has rendered the field finely granu- 
lar ; or the organisms have run together into close networks ; or 
aome other faults render the object useless for the pur- 



102 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

pose desired. Diluting the original fluid by distilled water will 
often get rid of much of the soluble substance, or by pouring off 
some of the original fluid, then adding water, and allowing the 
bacteria to subi^ide before removing some to the cover glass. The 
prevention of the organisms running together is in some cases 
very difficult ; fewer should be placed in a droplet of distilled 
water on the cover. Sometimes the dried specimen can be Ijdd 
down upon a clean slide, and a drop of the staining fluid placed 
at one side, and allowed to run in. After due time, a pointed 
strip of blotting-paper may be placed at the opposite edge, to 
withdraw the staining fluid, at the same time that a little dis- 
tilled water is allowed to take its place ; the slide should now 
be examined. This may be repeated several times, and when 
sufficiently washed, placed over a watch glass and allowed 
to dry in that position. In this way the liability to run into 
lines may be lessened. If found upon examination to be satis- 
factory, it is perfectly dried, and fluid Canada balsam allowed to 
run in beneath the cover ; or with care the cover can be cemented 
with Hollis' glue, and preserved as a dry mount. Generally, too 
much stain remains upon the slide, and many of the organisms 
have fallen upon it, so that they could not be in focus at the same 
time with those on the cover ; hence it is best to lift the cover, 
clean the slide, and perhaps the cover itself may need further 
washing and perfect drying, before putting a drop of balsam on 
the slide, warming it gently, and placing the cover upon it ta 
complete the mounting. It is as well, if the slide is likely to be 
used with an oil immersion lens, to run round the edge of the 
cover a little of Hollis' liquid glue or other cement insoluble 
in the cedar oil. Some of the bacteria stain very readily, othera 
more slowly or with difficulty, and if measurements have to be 
made, they will often be found to have considerably altered by 
the drying, staining, and mounting process when compared with 
those mounted direct from the original liquid, or in distilled 
water. Some dry very perfectly on the cover glass, and can be 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 103 

pliotographed in this condition without further mounting. The 
staining material may also be dissolved in glycerine (after the 
plan so largely used by Dr. Beale in his histological researches), 
then ^washed with glycerine slightly acidified with acetic acid, 
and mounted in the same medium; or some of the staining 
material may be used neutral, slightly alkaline, or acid. A fev 
are fonnd to fade after being mounted. 

The baciUi — except the tubercle bacillus — and the spirilla are 
generally more easy of preparation. They are less likely to be 
too crowded or to run together. The hay bacillus stains very 
nicely with Bismarck brown ; also with roseaniline and acetate. 
Whichever plan may be adopted, it is well to examine the slide 
cazefally for the best part for photographing, as in places some 
of the organisms may be found to lie on the slide ; whilst only 
those on the cover should be imaged. The examination should 
he made with a high power — after selection by a lower power — 
88 the l-8th. The bacillus of tubercle requires a special method 
of staining to distinguish it from other bacilli that often 
accompany it. It is also as well to obtain one specimen of the 
dganisms by methyl violet by way of comparison ; if this aniline 
dye he not at hand, a bottle of the ordinary violet ink may sup- 
ply its place. Osmic acid appears to contract the body of the 
orgaxdsm more than iodine in iodide of potassium, or even tinc- 
ture of iodine ; in the two latter, the stain is paler than with 
the Bismarck brown. 

Il0thod of Photographing, — Supposing the preparation to be 
satisbctory, it remains now to point out a method to secure a fair 
ncgatiye, for the accomplishment of which the best optical applL 
anceSy inclusive of a perfectly steady stand, are to be strongly 
recommended. Assuming these to be at hand, and artificial illu- 
ndnation with the rapid gelatino-bromide plates to be used, before 
fixing the slide on the stage at the part selected, centre the sub- 
itage achromatic condenser carefully, then fix the slide on the 
stagOi and regulate the position of the condenser by its rackwork, 



104 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

until, if using daylight for the examination, the brightest image 
is obtained by central illumination, the£eld all over being equally 
bright. Test the object with the highest eye-piece the objective 
will bear, and cut down all surplus light by the substage dia- 
phragm wheel, thus obtaining the best possible image. Having 
carefully turned aside or removed the mirror and the eye-piece> 
attach the instrument to the camera in such a way as to be light- 
tight at the junction ; place the lamp, a large 1-inch or 1-^inch 
single- wick parafOin lamp, as close up to the stage as convenient, 
the flame being turned edgewise to the object, and in a truly cen- 
tral line with the objective ; now place the bull's-eye with the 
flat surface near to the flame, or so as to All the back lens of the 
condenser with parallel or slightly-converging rays. Close tip 
the camera (if of the expanding form, as perhaps the most con- 
venient) upon the body tube, cover all the apparatus up to the 
stage with the camera cloth, and focus the object by a Bamsden 
eye-piece upon the ground glass ; then carefully draw out the 
camera, keeping the image constantly in focus as the magnifica- 
tion proceeds. Determine the point at which this is to be 
arrested; now examine for some particular part in the focus 
previously fixed upon, as affording the best general or particular 
image, decide whether the focus shall be on or into the object, 
and fix the camera firmly on its stand. Now wjdt for at least 
five minutes, then re-examine the image on the screen ; it will 
most likely be out of focus from expansion by the heat from the 
lamp ; re-arrange the focus, and again wait a little time. When 
all remains stationary, insert the sensitive plate holder, cut off 
the light to the sub-stage condenser by a card made to rest 
against it, withdraw the shutter very carefully, wait a few 
seconds, then snatch the card away, and give the necessary ex- 
posure (say, five to ten minutes) according to power of the light, 
objective, length of camera, and sensitiveness of the plate used. 
Develop by any of the formulae recommended with the make of 
plate, or one that gives as little granularity as possible ; fhe 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 105 

), soda, and sodic sulphite developer is generally useful ; with 
I power and lamp light it is seldom possible to get a very 
»e field without over-developing the image, and from the 
nisms being so smaJl, it is useless to apply the same means 
;he observance of the image in process of formation, as in 
A le or portrait photography ; in this lies much of the 

ilty attendant on this part of photo-micrography, 
tiis is one of the simplest arrangements and within the usual 
h of the microscopist, but it has been found that certain addi- 
i and precautions tend to improve the results. A cell with 
llel sides containing a solution of alum placed between the 
's-eye and sub-stage condenser will cut off the heat rays. 
Eimmonia sulphate of copper solution in the same situation 

famish a chemical focus, though this is seldom needed 
I the high powers, and a polished silvered reflector placed 
nd the flame so as to converge the diverging rays to a circle 
valent to the posterior surface of the condensing lens, if of 
3 size, will increase the brightness of the field. Again 
ing on the stage a dull-blackened thin brass slide centrally 
jed with a smooth bevelled aperture of about one-twelfth to 
tenth of an inch diameter, upon which the object slide is 

the part to be photographed being over the aperture, and 
a large thin metal diaphragm with an aperture nearly the size 
le bull's-eye condenser placed between it and the lamp, so as 
revent the passage of reflected light reaching the objective, 
often conduce to the purity of the image. A pierced metal 
y with a shoulder, upon which the bull's-eye condenser 
be centrally fixed, is very useful, but when the light is thus 
i up, there is a difficulty in seeing the condition of the flame, 
ss there be a counter opening with a glass shutter which can 
asily closed. There are several special lamps provided for 
"oscopists, very suitable for this work, but would be much 
3 so if the flame were more powerful, only they are rather 
y. Some of the paraffin oils are so impure that they quickly 



106 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

give a brownish, very non-actinic deposit upon the inside of the 
lamp-glass, and this will require constant removal. The beat ' 
crystal oil should be used, and the addition of a little camphor, 
about half an ounce to the pint, may be dissolved in the paraffin 
oil. It appears to slightly increase the illuminating power. The- 
wick, before being put into the lamp, should be thoroughly dried' 
and most evenly trimmed ; and when lighted and turned up to 
its proper height, there should be no flicker of the flame. K 
time can be spared to centre the image of the flame given by 
a large angle sub-stage condenser by direct light, **.e., without 
the mirror, and this again imaged by a high power objective, 
and then racked a little out of focus, the field will, by patient 
management, be found beautifully illuminated, though it may 
be not quite equal all over. Various forms of condensers 
have been tried, but of late preference has been given to the use 
of a Kellner's eye-piece as the condenser ; the usual cap with a 
pin-hole being removed, a single lens about 1-1 2th inch radius^ 
centred on a movable diaphragm is substituted, and made to 
elide by friction in the ordinary cap to the eye-piece, the position 
of the small lens in relation to the eye lens being selected that ' 
furnished the beet illumination. When this is inserted in 1 
sub-stage, and the lamp with bull's eye duly centred with it, 
looking at the back or field lens a beautiful circle of light, equally 
divided by a central rod of light, the image of the flame, is seen 
if the centring be perfect. The focussing is best done by a rod 
rotating beneath the base-board of the camera, or at its side, 
furnished with a pulley, over which is passed a narrow silk braid 
band, to gear in a groove in the head of the fine adjustment. 
This is easily thrown in and out of gear if the pulley on the rod 
be wide, and only slightly raised at its edges. The rod should 
be capable of being rotated at any part of its length, and be 
out of the way of accident. Avoid an elastic band or catgut, 
as this is affected by the atmospheric conditions more than silk. 
If only a very small negative be required, a little compact 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 107 

lera slido is ^xnade so as to be adapted to tlie eye end of 
body tube, and the low power ocular so arranged by 
itional tubing, that the images when in focus shall lie exactly 
iie plane of the sensitive surface when in situ ; the position 
bhe eye-piece once determined, the parts are fixed by a set 
5W ; then by finding the focus with that ocular, and substi- 
Ing the prepared plate, the use of the ground glass is avoided. 
liere have been several devices for this purpose, and most 
atiful results obtained, as shown in the very small negatives 
b were placed by Dr. Roux on M. Pasteur's table at the 
ilth Exhibition, but soon, unfortunately, missing. "With 
li an arrangement the body tube can be lengthened, so as to 
fease the magnification, as has been done by Dr. Maddox ; or 
nail camera can be attached by a clamp and strut to the stand 
he microscope, as figured by Dr. Mercer, U.S., mt\iQ Journal 
SAtf Eayal Microscopical Society for August, 1884. In all 
» it seems preferable that the camera should not be a fixture 
lie body tube. If the inclined microscope be placed on a 
Idently long base-board, the camera could be easily supported 
% couple of slotted struts with binding screws at each side, 
ig from the base-board, and the attachment to the body tube 
le light-tight by a flexible material. The ground glass is a 
ler imperfect material for focussing the image of bacteria upon; 
acreaseits utility, oiling, or partially polishing part of its sur- 
I has been proposed ; some attach thin glass covers by Canada 
am to different parts of its surface, or varnish the central 
ion, or use plate glass unground, or with a coUodio-albumen- 
[ surface, or a layer of gutta-percha dissolved in chloroform, or 
Hied thin varnish. The best thing is a polished opaque white 
!ace to focus upon if the camera can be so arranged. Some 
e entirely rejected the use of the gelatino-bromide plate, and 
ftoial light, for sunlight, heliostat, and wet collodion plates, 
oxy-hydrogen lime light has advantages as regards iUumina- 
, and the new oxy-hydrogen microscope by Messrs. Swift 



108 HOW TO PHOTOGBAPH MICBOSOOPIC OBJECTS. 

and Son, figured in the Journal of ih^ Boj^al Afieroseopieal Sockiy 
for Oct., 1884, seems likely to fulfil every necessary want, and 
to be readily adaptable to pboto-micrography.* Water immer- 
sion and homogenous immersion lenses of hi^ optical excellence 
are better than the dry objectiTe. Perfect centzing of all the parts 
is essential, and if increased magnification be required, it can be 
attempted either with a low power £. P. tn sitUf or by means of an 
amplifier screwed into the lower end of the draw tube, but a 
reduction in the sharpness of the image may be expected. When 
using high-angle lenses, perfect definition scarcely covers more than 
the central half of the plate. The magnification isbest kept within 
the iunge between 500 and 1,000 diameters, and if sections of 
tissues with the bacteria in position are to be photographed, 
something must be sacrificed to obtain the best definition of these 
minute bodies. This chapter might be largely extended, but 
this brief summary of many of the leading points connected with 
the bacteria, and mode of photographing them, must suffice. An 
extended bibliography of the subject relating to these microbes 
will be found in Dr. Sternberg's translation of Magnin's Bacteria. 
The student must not be surprised if he meet with more failures 
in this than in any other branch of photography ; and he will 
often have to draw largely upon patience to arrive at success. 

Much has been omitted in reference to the bacteria, as their 
necessity for free air, '* aerobic," or, independence of free oxygen, 
"anaerobic," the methods and materials of cultivation — these 
and kindred particulars will be found in Dr. Klein's excellent 
manual, "Micro-Organisms and Disease," published by Mac- 
millan and Co., second edition ; and Mr. W. Chejrne's papers in 
the JBrit. Med. Journ., April 25th, May 2nd, &c., 1885; and in 
" Photo-Micrographs, and How to Make Them," Svo, G. M. 
Sternberg, M.D., U.S.A., Osgood and Co., Boston, 1883. 



* See, also, several papers on the Use of the Incandescent Electric Light, 
published lately in the same jonrnal. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

DKTEGTION OF ARSENIC IN FABRICS, AND PHOTO- 
GRAPHING DEPOSITS OF ARSENOUS ACID. 

WB the past few years public attention has been called to 

Ikot that arsenic is largely used in colours applied to wall- 

Sy dress fabrics, and other things in daily use. It has been 

vedbythe investigations of several eminent chemists and 

118, that the use of wall-papers or fabrics in which arsenic 

in t, is attended with danger to health, or even to life. 

I lie inhaled by the lungs, either in the form of powder, 

I .uretted hydrogen, is far more poisonous than when 

U»n directly into the stomach ; thus all materials in which 

lie is used should be avoided. It is not intended to enter 

9 the arsenic question here ; all who desire fuller information 

fihiB most importsuit subject should read Mr. Carr's " Our 

Domestic Poisons," or his lecture on the same subject, delivered 

it the International Health Exhibition. Our object hero is 

?ely to show how the photo-micrographer may easily test a 

ric for arsenic, and by comparison with standard slides of 

» B of arsenious acid, be able to estimate pretty correctly 

lie quantity present. 

In the report of the National Health Society, the committee 

nic in domestic fabrics state : — An examination of a very 

je nnmbcr of papers supplied by these manufacturers— that 



110 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

is, certain maniLfacturers who had ahjured the use of arsenical 
colours — leads to the conclusion that on allowance of half-a- 
grain of arsenic per ** piece of paper" — a piece being twelve 
yards in length and twenty-one inches wide — ^would be ample 
for accidental and unavoidable contamination ; suid this quantity 
it is considered would not be injurious to health. It is found 
that a suitable size for a sample to be tested is 16 square inches, 
to be cut from one part, or, if thought well, from several parts 
of the pattern, so as to include the more arsenical colours. The 
proposed limit of haJf-a-grain per piece gives '001 grain per 
sample of 16 square inches. For ordinary uniform materials, a 
square of 4 inches by 4 inches may, therefore, be taken as the 
portion to be tested. 

In applying the microscopic and photographic tests to arseni* 
cal deposits, it is necessary to have standard microscopical slides 
with definite deposits of '001 grain, '002 grain, '003 grain, &c., 
with which the results of an analysis may be compared. Mr. 
Charles Heisch, F.C.S., gives the following directions for making 
a standard solution, from which such slides can easily be pie- 
pared: — 

Weigh accurately 1 grain of finely-powdered white arsenic; 
put it into a flask and pour on it about 20 drops of strong hydro- 
chloric acid ; let it stand for a short time, then add 3,000 grains 
distilled water, and boil till quite dissolved. When cold, make 
up the bulk to 10,000 grains. Every measure of 10 grains is 
then equal to *001 grpin of arsenic. 

By evaporating 10 grains, or 20 grains of the above sdntioii 
on a slip of glass, a deposit of either '001 grain or *002 grain of 
arsenic may be obtained. 

Under a magnifying power of 250 diameters, the difference 
between the two deposits is clearly marked. Taking up dides 
at random, and placing them on the stage of the microscope, 
after a little practice, one cannot mistake the '001 grain depoeifes 
for the '002 grain deposits. On the '002 gpin slides the oryfltab 

\ 

\ 



MICEOSCOPIC OBJECTS. Ill 

either much larger than the crystals on the '001 slides, and 
more numerous ; or, if the deposit of *002 grain is a fine one, the 
crystals are crowded together thickly in a circle, presenting a 
fArongly marked contrast to any of the -001 grain deposits, in 
which the crystals are but sparsely distributed. 

H a photograph of the whole area of deposit be required, care 
ynld betaken, in making the preparation, that all the crystals 
: thin a circle, and small enough to be taken in by a 2-inch 

I. A good 2-inch, with very flat field, is necessary, or the 
oystalfi at the margin of the circle will be out of focus. A lens 
<if thia locus will show the crystals only like small points, but a 
lens that gives really good, sharp definition, will show the form 
«t many of the larger crystals very clearly. Photographs taken 
with Buch a low power, although small, are useful for com- 
paziaon; but photographs of a portion of the deposit, taken with 
a good J-in. or ^in., are far more valuable, and show the octa- 
llfidzBl form of every crystal very distinctly. 

In photographing such standard slides with a power of 200 to 
250 diameters, a portion of each slide should be taken that shows 
best average distribution of the crystals. The light from the 
p will probably be found to be too powerful ; it will, there- 
foore, require to be modified. This may be done in various ways : 
€ne is to place a piece of oiled paper beneath the slide, to soften 
) light ; another is to use a piece of very fine ground glass, or 
] still, pale blue glass, either in the sub-stage or beneath the 

le ; or, if a very powerful lamp be employed, a diaphragm 
e the objective will give good results. The writer has used 
the Davis aperture shutter when photographing slides of arsenious 
aoidy and found it more convenient than any other mode of sub- 
duing the light. If the lens be used to give an amplification of 
400 to 500 diameters, or if a ]i*in. be used,[perhaps the light will 
zeqnire little or no modification. Boss's diffusion condenser is a 
▼cry useful piece of apparatus, when concentrated light is not 
leqtiired. 



112 HOW TO PHOTOGKAPH 

The time of exposure must be ascertained by actual trial, as 
exposures vary very much, not only with different lenses and 
lamps, but with different samples of oil. "With such transparent 
objects as crystals of arsenious acid, a very short exposure should 
be given, or the negative will be flat and hazy. A practised 
worker will guess tolerably [exactly the right time for each 
object, but a novice had better take a few trial negatives, giving 
different exposures to each, until the right exposure is found. 
For developing the negatives, the potash developer will be found 
most suitable, as with it a very short exposure can be given, 
while the negatives can easily be brought up to any required 
density. 

For the following concise and practical notes on the testing 
for arsenic in wall papers and fabrics, the writer is indebted to 
the kindness of Mr. Henry Carr, C.E., the author of " Our 
Domestic Poisons " : — 

Mode of Testing ly ReinscKs Process. — ^From the paper to be 
tested, cut a piece 4 in. by 4 in., or 1 6 in. area ; all colours must 
be included, or, if any particular colour be suspected, cut out 
this colour in sufficient quantity to cover the same area ; let the 
portion to be tested be cut up into small pieces. Place the test 
tube in the ring support, insert the paper, add dilute hydro- 
chloric acid (one of acid to four of water), half filling the tube, 
light the spirit lamp with a moderate flame, and place it under- 
neath the test tube. 

Take a piece of copper foil 1 in. by J in., brighten it with 
a piece of emery or glass paper, pass a flne platinum wire through 
a small hole in the copper foil, and as soon as the contents of the 
test tube boil, insert the copper, noting the exact time, and 
lowering the flame of the lamp so as to maintain a gentle sim- 
mering only. By means of the platinum wire, the copper can 
be drawn out and examined from time to time as the test 
proceeds. 

If there be much arsenic present, the copper will be coated 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 113 

almost immediately of a black or dark steel colour ; if less arsenic 
be present, a longer time will be required, varying from half 
a minute to half an hour, half an hour being the limit of time 
for boiling ; if in that time the copper be not coated all over of 
a lamp black or dark steel colour, the paper may be accepted, 
the cases being very rare in which this process does not 
detect the arsenic. If the copper be coated all over, the paper 
is in all probability arsenical, though the process carried thus 
far does not prove the presence of arsenic, for this coating may 
arise from sulphur, mercury, or some few other ingredients 
whicli may be present in the colouring matter. The completion 
of the test is as follows : — ^Well wash the copper by shaking it 
in clean water, holding it by the wire or by a small pair of 
pliers — tho copper must never be touched by the hand ; dry it 
first between two pieces of blotting paper, finally by laying it 
on a strip of thin sheet brass and warming it over the flame of 
the lamp — direct exposure of the copper to the flame must be 
avoided. Take a reduction tube, about 3 in. in length and J in. 
in diameter, dry it by holding the closed end in the flame till 
nearly red-hot, then slowly pass it forward till the whole is 
thoroughly heated ; taking the copper in the pliers, cut it up 
with a pair of scissors into such pieces as will pass into tho 
tube ; the mouth of the tube should then be closed slightly with 
cotton wool. Now hold the closed end of the tiibe containing 
the copper over the flame of the spirit lamp, gradually increasing 
the heat ; arsenic, if present, will be driven off the copper by tho 
heat, and will be deposited a short distance beyond in the form 
of octahedral crystals of arsenious acid, which may be examined 
by a small magnifying glass or under a microscope ; if the subli- 
mate consists of octahedral crystals, the discolouration of the 
copper is due to arsenic. Or the crystals may be sublimed on 
to a microscopic slide in the following manner : — 
Take a thin glass tube, J-inch internal diameter, and IJ- 

inchcs long, sealed at one end and lipped out like a test tube at 

I 



114 HOW TO PHOTOGEAPH MICKOSCOPIC OBJECTS. 

the other. Suspend this by dropping it through a hole cut in a 
piece of stout sheet brass or copper, not less than 4 by 1 inches, 
so that the lip just supports the tube, and place the brass or 
copper plate on the ring of a retort stand. Heat the tube 
nearly to redness, and expel the last trace of moisture, and 
when cold, put the copper strips within, and place over it, 
resting on the mouth of the tube, a microscopic slide, warmed in 
a spirit lamp till all the moisture at first deposited has dis- 
appeared. Kow heat the tube in the spirit lamp, letting the 
flame play on the under side of the brass plate. In a few 
seconds a sublimate will appear on the slide; watch this until 
it begins to shrink from the edges, and form a patch just the 
size of the bore of the tube. Eemove the lamp, allow the slide 
to cool, and examine the sublimate with a magnifying power of 
220 diameters. 

The copper and acid when first obtained must be tested by boil- 
ing alone for an hour ; if the copper then becomes coated at all, 
either the copper or the acid is not pure, and must be rejected. 

As it is absolutely necessary to employ really pure materials in 
testing for arsenic, it is well to know where such may be 
obtained. Messrs. Townson and Mercer, 89, Bishopsgate Street 
Within, London, E.C., supply the following materials for apply- 
ing Eeinsch's Test, at a cost of 8s. 6d. : — 8 ounces hydrochloric 
acid, guaranteed pure ; i ounce electric copper foil cut into pieces 
1 inch by i inch ; 8-inch thin platinum wire ; spirit lamp ; two 
test tubes of thin glass, holding about three ounces when full ; 
support to carry the test tube ; small pair of microscopic pliers ; 
twenty-five thin glass tubes, closed at one end, 3 inches in 
length, i inch in diameter ; a piece of thinnest sheet brass, 
4 inches by H inch ; supplied direct or through any druggist. 

By comparing the photographs of the deposits obtained from 
analysis of a piece of wall paper, or any fabric, with the photo- 
graphs of deposits on the standard slides, a very accurate det^- 
mination of the amount of arsenical contamination can be made. 



CHAPTEE XY. 



OTBS ON LENSES AND OTHER APPARATUS. 

i ter is written specially for the benefit of students who 

* quite unacquainted with microscopical apparatus, or 

.Te but little knowledge of what is suitable to their 

^s, and it is hoped that the information here given 

of service to all commencing photo-micrography. 

>ngh in the foregoing pages the writer has advocated the 

wide-angle lenses for photo-micrography, as he is con 

Bd that generally the best results will be obtaiaed by their 

\ is aware that lenses of medium angle will be chosen 

[jy not only on account of their cheapness, but also from 

n that for ease of working and for mixed work they 

ferable to lenses of wider aperture ; so in this chapter 

lenses of low and medium angle will be described, which 

iteir has found to give excellent results, both in general 

work and also in photo-micrography. 

years the writer has used lenses of medium angle, 

lition to others of higher angle, and has found that good 

I be got from their use in photography for all ordinary 

, long as the lenses are well corrected, and have a flat 

. Those hereafter mentioned are familiar to the writer from 

t TLSOi and he caa therefore strongly recommend thctm : 



116 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

other opticians also manufacture similar lenses, but only those 
named have come under the writer's immediate notice. 

There are some persons "who advocate the use of cheap French 
triplets, not only for microscopic work, but also for photo r 
micrography. Now, although there are some fairly good French 
triplets to be met with at times, that are capable of giving toler- 
able results, the writer thinks that those advocating their use 
can hardly have seen and used the cheap lenses of medium angle 
introduced of late years by all the best English opticians, with 
which the very best French triplet cannot for a moment com- 
pare. Some of the first lenses that the writer ever used were 
French triplets, obtained from a good London house. These 
were evidently picked lenses^ for the J-inch would resolve 
P. (mgulatum fairly, and they were not of the cheapest make, 
for the one named cost 17s. 6d. ; but none of them would bear 
the 3rd eye-piece, and all were evidently of very low angle, as 
the amount of light they admitted was very small. Still, for 
anyone beginning microscopical work, and unable to purchase 
the costly lenses of the first makers, which were the only 
English lenses then procurable, they were very^suitable. French 
triplets can be purchased as low as 9s. to 10s. each, or even 
cheaper; but such lenses are useless : they are manufactured in 
the Biost! haphazard style, and the combinations fitted together 
almost at random, until the several components are found to 
match somehow: such things are obviously quite unfitted for 
scientific work, an^ if a fairly good one be found at times, it is 
by pure accident. Even in the case of the best triplets, those 
above J-inch focus not only define badly, and have a strongly 
curved field, but admit so little light, from their very small 
angular aperture, that it is strange anyone could possibly advo- 
cate such abomination sf for any purpose whatever. 

In condemning common French lenses, it must be understood 
that there are some excellent lenses of French make. Those of 
Hartnack have a good reputatioui especially among medical 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 117 

-students, and at one time were to be specially recommended, as 
there were then no lenses in the English market equally good at 
-so low a price. Now, however, all this is changed : the lenses 
of Hartnack, though good, are not so well finished as modem 
English lenses of medium angle, have a much shorter working- 
distance, and are generally of smaller angle, or not so well 
•corrected — whence they will bear neither an English eye-piece, 
nor one of high power, nor a long draw-tube without suffering 
great loss of light and definition. Long tubes and deep eye- 
pieces do not improve the definition of any lens, but it is only 
a good one that will bear a 16-inch tube, or a No. 3 or No. 4 
eye-piece, without failing. These helps not only are useful in 
testing an objective, but also enable one often to resolve an object 
in which the markings are very fine and very close together ; 
nod while a good lens will bear this increase of amplification 
without the image being distorted or enveloped in pitchy dark- 
nesSy a bad lens will only define the object worse than ever,. an J 
display fully all its bad qualities. Thus the student should test 
every lens he intends to use, either with a C eye-piece, or a long 
tnbe^ or both. The good small-angle lenses now made by English 
opticians will stand this test well. All mentioned below will 
work very satisfactorily with the C eye-piece, without any 
marked loss of light or definition. 

The lenses of Messrs. Swift have been referred to in the 
•chapter on Microscopical Apparatus. The writer has used lenses 
from both the first and second series for some years, and has 
been well satisfied with them. In the second series, the writer 
has found the lenses of high power far superior to those of lower 
-power; and while he finds the low-angle lenses from J-inch 
upwards most excellent, he prefers the lenses of the JirBt scries 
lor photographic work, as these have a very flat field, and a flat 
field is of more importance with a low power than with a high 
one. For if, say, a wood-section l)e photographed with a 2-in. 
<jr 3-in. lens that has not a perfectly flat field, this defect will 



118 HOW TO PHOTOGRAJPH 

make itself felt most painfully in the photograph. K, however, 
a low-power Iods be required for general work,* a perfectly flat 
fleld is not an essential, and its absence will not be noticed 
unless this defect be very pronounced. Mr. Swift's first series 
of lenses, from 5 inches upwards, are all that can be desired, and 
the lower powers are so cheap, that the student will find it cost 
little more, and vastly to his advantage, to purchase all his low 
power lenses from this series. Their definition is good, their 
angle large, and their flatness of field as perfect as the test of 
photography will require. The 5 -inch is very useful for photo- 
graphing large sections of wood or minerals, or large insects, and 
is very rapid in action. The same may be said of the 4-inch, 
which will be found useful in microscopes which have not 
a sufficiently large rack to use the 5-inch. The wider angled 
f-inch., owing to its large aperture, will bear a good deal of 
topping down for photography, and its penetration is thus 
much increased ; but if the camera be used much extended, it is- 
best to use it full aperture. Of late, Messrs. Swift have brought 
out a 1-inch of 40®, which has marvellous defining powers. A 
photograph of a fly's tongue, taken with this lens, is the 
sharpest and crispest photo-micrograph the writer has ever seen, 
and quite bears out what he has advanced concerning the advan- 
tages of lenses of high angle. In this photograph there is 
a brilliance and an evenness of definition such as is rarely seen. 
The hairs, the false tracheae, and every minute marking, stand 
out with marvellous sharpness. 

The 3-in., 2-in., 1-in., and |-in. in the second series are 
most excellent lenses, especially when their low price is con- 
sidered, and very good photographs can be taken with them, and 
the writer frequently uses them for this purpose. Mr. Swift 
used to make a -A- in. in this series. It would resolve a fine P. 
angulatum easily and well, and gave sharp definition under the 



* That is, for general microscopic work — not for photography. 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 119 

3rd eye-piece. This lens is not now catalogued, but would 

doubtless be made for anyone desiring it. It would be a very 

useful lens to the photo-micrographer, who frequently wants a 

power between the J-in. and ^-in., yet who does not care to pay 

the high price usually charged for a first-class ^ in. The J-in., 

i-in., i-in., and i-in. of this series are perhaps the best of all. 

Thei-in. and i-in. the writer finds invaluable, as they will not 

• only resolve diatoms of medium difficulty, but, as they are made 

with conical fronts, they can be used with ease for. exhibiting 

opaque objects. The i-in. resolves Angulatum with A eye-piece 

and mirror alone, while the i-in. will go as far as 8. gemrim on 

the balsam test plate, using an ordinary condenser. These two 

lenses, the i-in. and i-in., are far superior to any foreign lenses 

of the same focal length, and have a good " working distance ; " 

besides which, their penetration is so good, that they can be 

used on objects having a very uneven surface. The i-in. has 

been used by the writer frequently for photographing crystals, 

either with*or without the eye-piece. 

Mr. Collins, in addition to his best lenses, which are well- 
known and have a good reputation for general as well as photo- 
graphic work — Dr. Sternberg having employed some of this 
series for photo-micrography — also makes a series of lenses, of 
lower angle, several of which, the 1 inch, J inch, J inch, and 
i inch, have been used by the writer. These are the lenses 
usually supplied with the *' Histological " microscope, unless 
others are desired. The 1 inch and i inch are capable of per- 
forming very satisfactory work, but as regards photography, the 
lenses of the first series are preferable, being of wider angle 
and having a flatter field. On MoUer's Balsam Probe Platte, 
the i inch resolves as far as P. acuminatum^ but will not resolve 
the Angulatum — unless, perhaps, with a condenser — although it 
will resolve finely marked English specimens mounted dry. 
Diatoms are, as every microscopist knows, far more difficult of 
resolution when in balsam than when mounted dry. For pL>^to- 



120 ' HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

graphy, if possible, dry-mounted specimens should be obtainetl. 
The i inch is the best lens of the four. It goes easily through 
the balsam Probe Platte as far as S. ffemma, No. 13, using only 
the mirror and A eye-piece ; yet its penetration is so good as to 
give a good sharp image of Aulacodiscus from edge to edge, 
spite of the convex shape of this diatom. Small English J\ 
angulatuMy dry, are at once resolved into dots, without using 
very oblique light. This lens is very useful for photographing • 
diatoms of medium difficulty, blood-corpuscles, test-scales, and 
minute organic or inorganic deposits. In the hands of a prac- 
tised manipulator, it will do as good work as most dry ^ths, 
costing double the price. The prices of all these lenses are 
exceedingly low. 

Mr. Baker, of High Holbom, has also introduced an excel- 
lent series of low-angle lenses, admirably suited to the wants 
of the student. They are very cheap, the ^th inch costing only 
50s. Mr. Baker makes also a "New Model Histolo^cal Micro- 
scope," a compact, well-built little stand, costing,' with case, 
£3 10s., very suitable for anyone beginning the study of 
photo-micrography ; although the larger size of this microscope, 
with full-sized tube and heavier base, costing £5 with case, 
would probably be more satisfactory. Such stands are far 
better for photographic work than the foreign microscopes, but 
if the student have a fancy for a foreign model, he could not do 
better than obtain the Hartnack stand of Mr. Baker, which, in 
addition to any advantages possessed by this form, has also thi- 
advantage of being of sound . English workmanship, which in 
microscopes, as in most other things, is still far superior to that 
of the French or the Germans. The ''Model Histological" 
should have rack adjustment to the optical tube if intended to 
be used for photography. 

Mr. Baker is also the English agent for the celebrated lenses 
of Zeiss, Seibert, Kraft, and Leitz. These lenses have been 
mentioned before, and the student is strongly advised, if he 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 121 

need any lenses of high power, to try the productions of these 
makers. English lenses of high power are very dear, and far 
beyond the reach of the majority of students ; still, they are un- 
rivalled, and all who can afford to purchase them should 
patronise some of the leading makers. Yet, as few will care to 
pay twelve, sixteen, or thirty guineas for lenses of iV inch, iV 
inch, and gV inch focus, the foreign lenses of the makers named 
above will be found to perform at least nearly as well, and be 
equal to all the work usually required of them. The writer 
has used several of these lenses, and can thus recommend them 
lor photo-micrography. Any supplied by Mr. Eaker can be 
relied upon as being really good, serviceable lenses, that will 
give satisfaction. The immersion lenses of Seibert are somewhat 
cheaper than those of Zeiss, and the prices of a few are here 
^ven : — ^ inch dry, £3 ; -jV inch imm., £3 ; -oV inch imm., 
£6. 

Zeiss' s i inch dry, £3 lis.; -A- inch dry, £4 9s.; J inch 
imm,, £4 15s. For others, the student is referred to Mr. 
Baker's Catalogue, but few will want higher powers than 
these. For powers below iV inch the cheap lenses of medium 
angle, now sold by all the best English opticians, will be found 
as economical and satisfactory as the foreign ones. Zeiss^and 
Leitz also produce oil-immersion lenses, which have far greater 
resolving power than the water-lenses, but they are all costly. 
However, Leitz makes an oil-immersion ^V inch, of which many 
of our best microscopists speak very highly, which costs only £6. 
For photographing diatoms, or minute organisms, the student 
will find immersion lenses far superior to dry lenses, and the 
price of many of the above is so moderate, that few students 
need be without at least one high power. 

The "Webster condenser of Mr. Collins has been referred to 
before, but lately this excellent condenser has been vastly im» 
proved, and now forms a most efficient piece of apparatus. The 
old wheel of diaphragms has been replaced by a convenient and 



122 HOW TO PHOTOGEAPH 

• 

beautiful iris, or contracting diaphragm, and an adjustable 
shutter, working on a hinge, is employed to carry stops for 
dark-ground illumination and oblique light, making it most 
complete; "while, at the same time, it is much more compact 
than the older form. All who require a good condenser should 
see this new form of the Webster condenser. It is made to fit 
microscopes either with or without sub-stage. This condenser, 
and the Popular Condenser of Mr. Swift, answer the ordinary 
requirements of the photo-micrographer far better than any other 
form that the writer is acquainted with, are capable of resolving 
most of the difficult tests, and are exceedingly cheap. The Popu- 
lar Condenser is, perhaps, preferred by the writer, as it has 
polarizing prism and selenite films in addition, and on removing 
the lenses that form the condenser, the same mount may be 
made to carry a small paraboloid. For those who, like the 
writer, employ the microscope chiefly in chemical and geological 
studies, no better form of condenser could be devised, unless it 
be the more perfect model mentioned in the first chapter. How- 
ever, either will be a great help, and save a vast amount of 
time in properly illuminating any object that is being photo- 
graphed. A great deal can be done with mirror and bull's-eye 
alone, but only those who have tried to photograph a difficult 
diatom with these simple appliances know how much time, 
energy, and temper, are wasted in so doing. The practical 
photo-micrographer cannot be too grateful to the optician whose 
skill and ingenuity have furnished him with these excellent 
labour and time-saving appliances at so low a price. 

A smaller and simpler condenser is also made by Mr. Swift, 
at the low price of 25s., that will suit admirably those who cannot 
conveniently obtain condensers of higher cost. It consists of the 
usual combinations of achromatic lenses, which furnish quite 
a flood of light, and has also a stop for dark-ground illuminatioii 
worked by a small lever at one side. It can be used as a spot- 
lens with the 2-in., 1-in., and ^in. objectives by moving the 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 123 

spot beneath in the centre of the condenser. The spot in the 
same position is of great use for resolving diatoms, lined structure, 
or nerve fibre. "When great resolving powers are required, the 
stop must remain in the central position, and the large diaphragm, 
working in the stage, should have one of its apertures moved 
across the upper lens of the condenser, until the necessary 
obliquity of light be obtained. In this way, a 4-10 in. or low- 
angle i-in. may easily be made to resolve a difficult diatom, as 
the writer has repeatedly proved, which, without the condenser, 
would show nothing but the outline of the frustule. Simple a& 
this form is, the student will find it far more to his advantage to 
purchase this little piece of apparatus, than be altogether without 
a condenser. In photo-miorography a condenser, properly 
managed, frequently brings out structural details, which, with- 
out it, would either be but poorly shown, or quite obliterated by 
a flood of light. It is not only when illuminating objects that 
require ** resolution," but in the great majority of cases, that a 
good achromatic condenser will be found useful. Abundance of 
light can be got from a good paraffin lamp and a bull's-eye lens, 
even when using a iV inch or a iV inch for photography; ai;id 
the achromatic condenser is not required so much to give -lighty 
as to modify light, to suit the different objects photographed. 

Since the description of Swift's "Wale's microscope was written 
considerable improvements have been made in the stands, which 
not only increase their utility for general work, but also for 
photo-micrography. It is a fact, that there are many large 
microscopes in the market, of fine workmanship, and replete with 
expensive mechanical stages and sub-stages, that are far inferior 
to the smaller "Wale's model, figured previously, as regards 
strength and balance. As shown, the stem of the microscope is 
not hung on trunnions, as in most microscopes, but moves by 
means of a sector sliding between the jaws of the tripod base, 
and this motion is marvellously smooth and steady, while the 
microscope can be firmly clamped in any position by means of 



124 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

a large milled-head screw at the side, and remains perfectly 
steady at any angle of inclination. In the smaller stands, a large 
diaphragm plate, with one aperture the size of the full opening 
of the stage, and with several smaller apertures, is fitted in the 
stage-plate itself, and works immediately beneath the object. 
This feature has several advantages, especially when using an 
achromatic condenser, or when resolving difficult diatoms. The 
larger microscopes made on this model, such as that recently 
exhibited before the Eoyal Microscopical Society, and fitted with 
the newest form of thin mechanical stages, sub-stages, and new 
patent fine-adjustment, are as perfect in every respect as stands 
costing more than* twice the price, and are of exquisite finish. 
The semi-circular curve of the arm of the microscope allows the 
mechanical stage, carrying the milled-heads, to perform a com- 
plete rotation in the optic axis. The writer believes this can be 
done in no other form of microscope, except in the largest and 
very costly microscope of Powell and Lealand, as the milled 
heads of the stage strike against the arm of the microscope, and 
thus prevent complete rotation. Concentrically rotating stages 
are not only convenient, but so absolutely necessary for bringing 
out the best effects with polarised and reflected light, that it is 
strange any good microscopes should ever be made without them. 
In the larger Wale's model, not only is the stage as thin as can 
be made, consistent with firmness, but the 'aperture beneath is 
of very large size, to allow of using light of the utmost obliquity. 
The milled-heads give a motion of one inch in each direction ; 
and in the stand used by the writer, the concentric motion is so 
good that a diatom placed in the centre of a i-in. remains ^in the 
field of view during a complete rotation. In the writer's 
opinion, the Wale's form of microscope — which is of American 
design — is destined to become not only very popular, but the 
recognised form for the best instruments. 

Messrs. Eoss and Co., in addition to their large and costly 
microscopes, which have gained a world-wide reputation, owing 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 



125 



to their perfeefaon of workmanship and exquisite beauty of 
finisli, now manufacture cheaper instruments, expressly for 
atodents, one of which, called the "Brewer's Microscope,"^ is 
here figured {fljt; 2). As will be seen, it is made on the same 
model as the larger stands, has a good mechanical stage, but is not 





F.g. 1. 



fitted with sub-stage. Tor general photo-micrography it would 
be yery suitable, especially if used with Swift's Popular Con- 
denser, or Collins' Webster Condenser. It is hardly necessary 
to say, that like all the work of Boss and Co., it is well-made 
and of solid construction. The mirrors, too, are of very large 
nzc. Smaller microscopes are also made by this firm, but none 
of them, excepting their No, 4. stand (fig, 1), which has a sub- 
etsge, are well adapted to the wants of the photo-mierographcr. 



126 HOW TO PHOTOGRAPH 

The latter stand has, however, most unfortunately, eye-pieces of 

the Continental size — why, it would b6 hard to say. 

Eoss and Company also have a series of small-angle lenses, 

sold at a moderate price. These vary in price, according to 

their angular aperture, and of these the writer has practically 

tested a 1% inch and a i inch of 1 10**. Like all the productions 

-of this house, these lenses proved most satisfactory, and will 

answer fully the purposes of those who have an objection to 

lenses of high angle. The first series of Messrs. Ross are all 

that can be desired. 

Messrs. R. and J. Beck have several small students' micro- 
scopes, such as the " National " and the new form of the 
** Economic," which would form suitable instruments for prac- 
tising photo-micrography. The "Popular Microscope" is not 
fit for this work. In the writer's opinion, a microscope to be 
used for photography should be on the Jackson model, with 
firm tripod base, full-sized tube, and have a fitting beneath the 
stage for carrying the full-sized condensers and other accessory 
apparatus. If it is to be used with high powers, a good mechani- 
cal stage, of large size, and rotating concentrically, should also 
be applied. 

In conclusion, the writer would most earnestly advise the 
student to buy none but the very best apparatus his purse can 
afford, and to patronise none but the first opticians for micro- 
scopes, lenses, and microscopical appliances, if he desire to 
do real worlc. It has been shown that good apparatus is not 
necessarily high-priced, and, besides being capable of doing the 
best work, will give pleasure every time it is used. The writer 
insists on this point the more strongly, because he knows that it 
is the inexperienced, who although most standing in need of good 
advice, are yet the least disposed to take it, and the most confi- 
dent in their own judgment, and it is such who usually fall a 
prey to the puff of the unscrupulous trader, and furnish a 
market for worthless apparatus. Many of the best microscopes 



MICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 127 

of our first opticians^ of the finest workmanship and finish, are 
famished with a bronzed foot and arm, simply to enahle the 
maker to sell these instruments at a moderate price ; yet the 
writer has known a wretched, shaky, worthless microscope, 
fitted with the very worst French lenses, to be preferred, simply 
because, forsooth, it had a gaudily-lacquered stem and base, 
and a ricketty mechanical stage! and this, too, when the 
purchaser had been advised, by experienced microscopists, as 
to the best instruments to purchase. More especially would 
the writer caution the novice against buying the £6 and £6 
microscopes, supplied with bad French lenses and execrable 
focussing adjustments, to be obtained from dealers both in 
London and the provinces. Really excellent microscopes, at the 
same price, and provided with two good English objectives, can 
be had from most of the makers named above, which are made 
for real scientific work, and which no scientific man would be 
ashamed to use. Scientific instruments must always be made 
by skilled workmen if they are to be of use ; and the beginner 
may depend upon it that the most perfect instruments will be 
made only by those who have devoted a life-time to the work, 
and who have a reputation at stake. 



E 



iU AND PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTfl 



"PREMIER" CAMERAS, 

nwt HiiproivJ I'Mmn U> UM, uid tbo blubetl QUlilv wurhiRiia>l>tl> 
TaTO.MIC ROURAPUr 

IT,T 1 ■;ti^ ATBD OATALOGTTB 
I !•■. MAVi>-', K-xposirut: snurrKRs, i)«y 

J,.Vn rill rtet) AtwfHJry r*nolri-J m I'tologrifli,', 

llil;i.c! ■ 

LTSC>Tsr'S 

lo, 6 BINOCULAR MICROSCOPE,. 



. . iin [InlaliDK KUke iAfS O 

iLU3TRA.TED OATALOGITE J 

[O'A-'JfE.-!. UIUECTlVKiJ. <»1 Af«l»Ji01lV A(■^An.^■n''^. 



ICROSCOPIC OBJECTS. 



IIFIED UST SHT pgST FREC 01 APniCITIOI, 



Ojftifiatif tfl II. if. Giii'grmafiil^ i 

:OH aOLBORN, LONDON. [Kniiumn IS)?]. 